{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f2\froman\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f3\fmodern Courier New;}{\f4\froman Arial;}{\f5\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier New;}}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx204\lang1033\b\f0\fs20 GEORGE \b0\fs18 PLATEN \f1\fs22 could not conceal the longing in his voice. It was too much to suppress. He said, \ldblquote Tomorrow\rquote s the first of May. Olympics!\rdblquote\f0\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\f1 He rolled over on his stomach and peered over the foot of his bed at his roommate. Didn\rquote t \i\f0 he \i0\f1 feel it, too? Didn\rquote t \i\f0 this \i0 make some impression on him?\par
\f1 George\rquote s face was thin and had grown a trifle thinner in the nearly year and a half that he had been at the House. His figure was slight but the look in his blue eyes was as intense as it had ever been, and right now there was a trapped look in the way his fingers curled against the bedspread.\f0\par
\f1 George\rquote s roommate looked up briefly from his book and took the op\f0\-poffimity to adjust the light-level of the stretch of wall near his chair. His name was Hali Omani and he was a Nigerian by birth. His dark brown skin and massive features seemed made for calmness, and mention of the Olympics did not move him.\par
\f1 He said, \ldblquote I know, George.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 George owed much to Hall\rquote s patience and kindness when it was needed, but even patience and kindness could be overdone. Was this a time to sit there like a statue built of some dark, warm wood?\f0\par
George wondered if he himself would grow like that after ten years here and rejected the thought violently. No!\par
\f1 He said defiantly, \ldblquote I think you\rquote ve forgotten what May means.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 The other said, \ldblquote I remember very well what it means. It means nothing! You\rquote re the one who\rquote s forgotten that. May means nothing to you, George Platen, and,\rdblquote  he added softly, \ldblquote it means nothing to me, Hali Omani.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 George said, \ldblquote The ships are coming in for recruits. By June, thousands and thousands will leave with millions of men and women heading for any world you can name, and all that means nothing?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Less than nothing. What do you want me to do about it, anyway?\rdblquote  Omani ran his finger along a difficult passage in the book he was reading and his lips moved soundlessly.\f0\par
\fs20\page\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\tx249\fs22 George watched him. Damn it, he thought, yell, scream; you can do that much. Kick at me, do anything.\par
It was only that he wanted not to beso alone in his anger. He wanted not to be the only one so filled with resentment, not to be the only one dying a slow death.\par
\f1 It was better those first weeks when the Universe was a small shell of vague light and sound pressing down upon him. It was better before Omarn had wavered into view and dragged him back to a life that wasn\rquote t worth living.\f0\par
Omani! He was old! He was at least thirty. George thought: Will I be like that at thirty? Will I be like that in twelve years?\par
\f1 And because he was afraid he might be, he yelled at Omani, \ldblquote Will you stop reading that fool book?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 Omani turned a page and read on a few words, then lifted his head with its skullcap of crisply curled hair and said, \ldblquote What?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote What good does it do you to read the book?\rdblquote  He stepped forward, snorted \ldblquote More electronics,\rdblquote  and slapped it out of Omani\rquote s hands.\f0\par
\f1 Omani got up slowly and picked up the book. He smoothed a crumpled page without visible rancor. \ldblquote Call it the satisfaction of curiosity,\rdblquote  he said. \ldblquote I understand a little of it today, perhaps a little more tomorrow. That\rquote s a victory in a way.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote A victory. What kind of a victory? Is that what satisfies you in life? To get to know enough to be a quarter of a Registered Electronician by the time you\rquote re sixty-five?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Perhaps by the time I\rquote mthirty-five.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote And then who\rquote ll want you? Who\rquote ll use you? Where will you go?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote No one. No one. Nowhere. I\rquote ll stay here and read other books.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote And that satisfies you? Tell me! You\rquote ve dragged me to class. You\rquote ve got me to reading and memorizing, too. For what! There\rquote s nothing in it that satisfies me.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote What good will it do you to deny yourself satisfaction?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote It means I\rquote ll quit the whole farce. I\rquote ll do as I planned to do in the beginning before you dovey-lovied me out of it. I\rquote m going to force them to\emdash to-\emdash --\emdash\emdash\emdash\rquote\rquote\f0\par
\f1 Omani put down his book. He let the other run down and then said, \ldblquote To what, George?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote To correct a miscarriage of justice. A frame-up. I\rquote ll get that Antoneffi and force him to admit he\emdash he\emdash\emdash\emdash -\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 Omani shook his head. \ldblquote Everyone who comes here insists it\rquote s a mistake. I thought you\rquote d passed that stage.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Don\rquote t call it a stage,\rdblquote  said George violently. \ldblquote In my case, it\rquote s a fact. I\rquote ve told you\emdash\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote You\rquote ve told me, but in your heart you know no one made any mistake as far as you were concerned.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Because no one will admit it? You think any of them would admit a mistake unless they were forced to?\emdash Well, I\rquote ll force them.\rdblquote\f0\par
\fs20\page\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\f1\fs22 It was May that was doing this to George; it was Olympics month. He felt it bring the old wildness back and he couldn\rquote t stop it. He didn\rquote t want to stop it. He had been in danger of forgetting.\f0\par
\f1 He said, \ldblquote I was going tobe aComputerProgrammerandlcanbeone. I could be one today, regardless of what they say analysis shows.\rdblquote  He pounded his mattress. \ldblquote They\rquote re wrong. They \i\f0 must \i0\f1 be.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote The analysts are never wrong.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote They \i\f0 must \i0\f1 be. Do you doubt my intelligence?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Inteffigence hasn\rquote t one thing to do with it. Haven\rquote t you been told that often enough? Can\rquote t you understand that?\rdblquote\f0\par
George rolled away, lay on his back and stared somberly at the ceiling.\par
\f1\ldblquote What did you want to be, Hali?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote I had no fixed plans. Hydropomcist would have suited me, I suppose.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Did you think you could make it?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote I wasn\rquote t sure.\rdblquote\f0\par
George had never asked personal questions of Omani before. It struck him as queer, almost unnatural, that other people had had ambitions and ended here. Hydroponicist!\par
\f1 He said, \ldblquote Did you think you\rquote d make \i this?\rdblquote\f0\par
\i0\f1\ldblquote No, but here I am just the same.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote And you\rquote re satisfied. Really, really satisfied. You\rquote re happy. You love it. You wouldn\rquote t be anywhere else.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 Slowly, Omani got to his feet. Carefully, he began to unmake his bed. He said, \ldblquote George, you\rquote re a hard case. You\rquote re knocking yourself out because you won\rquote t accept the facts about yourself. George, you\rquote re here in what you call the House, but I\rquote ve never heard you give it its full title. Say it, George, say it. Then go to bed and sleep this off.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 George gritted his teeth and showed them. He choked out, \ldblquote No!\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Then I will,\rdblquote  said Omani, and he did. He shaped each syllable carefully.\f0\par
George was bitterly ashamed at the sound of it. He turned his head away.\par
\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249 For most of the first eighteen years of his life, George Platen had headed firmly in one direction, that of Registered Computer Programmer. There were those in his crowd who spoke wisely of Spationautics, Refrigeration Technology, Transportation Control, and even Administration. But George held firm.\par
\f1 He argued relative merits as vigorously as any of them, and why not? Education Day loomed ahead of them and was the great fact of their existence. It approached steadily, as fixed and certain as the calendar\emdash  the first day of November of the year following one\rquote s eighteenth birthday.\f0\par
\f1 After that day, there were other topics of conversation. One could discuss with others some detail of the profession, or the virtues of one\rquote s wife and children, or the fate of one\rquote s space-polo team, or one\rquote s experience in the Olympics. Before Education Day, however, there was only one topic that\f0\par
\fs20\page\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx204\f1\fs22 unfailingly and unwearyingly held everyone\rquote s interest, and that was Educa\f0\-tion Day.\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\f1\ldblquote What are you going for? Think you\rquote ll make it? Heck, that\rquote s no good. Look at the records; quota\rquote s been cut. Logistics now\emdash\rdblquote\f0\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\tx249\f1 Or Hypermechanics now\emdash  Or Communications now\emdash  Or Gravit\f0\-\f1 ics now\emdash  Especially Gravitics at the moment. Everyone had been talking about Gravitics in the few years just before George\rquote s Education Day because of the development of the Gravitic power engine.\f0\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249 Any world within ten light-years of a dwarf star, everyone said, would give its eyeteeth for any kind of Registered Gravitics Engineer.\par
The thought of that never bothered George. Sure it would; all the eyeteeth it could scare up. But George had also heard what had happened before in a newly developed technique. Rationalization and simplification followed in a flood. New models each year; new types of gravitic engines; new principles. Then all those eyeteeth gentlemen would find themselves Out of date and superseded by later models with later educations. The first group would then have to settle down to unskilled labor or ship out to som\f1 e backwoods world that wasn\rquote t quite caught up yet.\f0\par
Now Computer Programmers were in steady demand year after year, century after century. The demand never reached wild peaks; there was never a howling bull market for Programmers; but the demand climbed steadily as new worlds opened up and as older worlds grew more complex.\par
He had argued with Stubby Trevelyan about that constantly. As best friends, their arguments had to be constant and vitriolic and, of course, neither ever persuaded or was persuaded.\par
But then Trevelyan had had a father who was a Registered Metallurgist and had actually served on one of the Outworlds, and a grandfather who had also been a Registered Metallurgist. He himself was intent on becom\-ing a Registered Metallurgist almost as a matter of family right and was firmly convinced that any other profession was a shadeless than respectable.\par
\f1\ldblquote There\rquote ll always be metal,\rdblquote  he said, \ldblquote and there\rquote s an accomplishment in molding alloys to specification and watching structures grow. Now what\rquote s a Programmer going to be doing. Sitting at a coder all day long, feeding some fool mile-long machine.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 Even at sixteen, George had learned to be practical. He said simply, \ldblquote There\rquote ll be a million Metallurgists put out along with you.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Because it\rquote s good. A good profession. The best.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote But you get crowded out, Stubby. You can be way back in line. Any world can tape out its own Metallurgists, and the market for advanced Earth models isn\rquote t so big. And it\rquote s mostly the small worlds that want them. You know what percent of the turnout of Registered Metallurgists get tabbed for worlds with a Grade A rating. I looked it up. It\rquote s just 13.3 percent. That means you\rquote ll have seven chances in eight of being stuck in some world that\f0\par
\fs20\page\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx204\f1\fs22 just about has running water. You may even be stuck on Earth; 2.3 percent are.\rdblquote\f0\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\f1 Trevelyan said beffigerently, \ldblquote There\rquote s no disgrace in staying on Earth. Earth needs technicians, too. Good ones.\rdblquote  His grandfather had been an Earth-bound Metallurgist, and Trevelyan lifted his finger to his upper lip and dabbed at an as yet nonexistent mustache.\f0\par
\f1 George knew about Trevelyan\rquote s grandfather and, considering the Earth\f0\-\f1 bound position of his own ancestry, was in no mood to sneer. He said diplomatically, \ldblquote No intellectual disgrace. Of course not. But it\rquote s nice to get into a Grade A world, isn\rquote t it?\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Now you take Programmers. Only the Grade A worlds have the kind of computers that really need first-class Programmers so they\rquote re the only ones in the market. And Programmer tapes are complicated and hardly any one fits. They need more Programmers than their own population can supply. It\rquote s just a matter of statistics. There\rquote s one first-class Programmer per million, say. A world needs twenty and has a population often million, they have to come to Earth for five to fifteen Programmers. Right?\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote And you know how many Registered Computer Programmers went to Grade A planets last year? I\rquote ll tell you. Every last one. If you\rquote re a Programmer, you\rquote re a picked man. Yes, sir.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 Trevelyan frowned. \ldblquote If only one in a million makes it, what makes you think \i you\rquote ll \i0 make it?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 George said guardedly, \ldblquote I\rquote ll make it.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 He never dared tell anyone; not Trevelyan; not his parents; of exactly what he was doing that made him so confident. But he wasn\rquote t worried. He was simply confident (that was the worst of the memories he had in the hopeless days afterward). He was as blandly confident as the average eight-year-old kid approaching Reading Day\emdash that childhood preview of Education Day.\f0\par
\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\f1 Of course, Reading Day had been different. Partly, there was the simple fact of childhood. A boy of eight takes many extraordinary things in stride. One day you can\rquote t read and the next day you can. That\rquote s just the way things are. Like the sun shining.\f0\par
\f1 And then not so much depended upon it. There were no recruiters just ahead, waiting and jostling for the lists and scores on the coming Olympics. A boy or girl who goes through the Reading Day is just someone who has ten more years of undifferentiated living upon Earth\rquote s crawling surface; just someone who returns to his family with one new ability.\f0\par
\f1 By the time Education Day caine, ten years later, George wasn\rquote t even sure of most of the details of his own Reading Day.\f0\par
\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\par
\pard\fi249\sl-124\slmult0\qj\tx249\f1\bullet Most clearly of all, he remembered it to be a dismal September day with a mild rain falling. (September for Reading Day; November for Education\f0\par
\pard\sl-124\slmult0\qj\tx249\par
\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx204 Day; May for Olympics. They made nursery rhymes out of it.) George had\par
\fs20\page\fs22 dressed by the wall lights, with his parents far more excited than he himself was. His father was a Registered Pipe Fitter and had found his occupation on earth. This fact had always been a humiliation to him, although, of course, as anyone could see plainly, most of each generation must stay on Earth in the nature of things.\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\f1 There had to be farmers and miners and even technicians on Earth. It was only the late-model, high-specialty professions that were in demand on the Outworlds, and only a few millions a year out of Earth\rquote s eight billion population could be exported. Every man and woman on Earth couldn\rquote t be among that group.\f0\par
\f1 But every man and woman could hope that at least one of his children could be one, and Platen, Senior, was certainly no exception. It was obvious to him (and, to be sure, to others as well) that George was notably intelligent and quick-minded. He would be bound to do well and he would have to, as he was an only child. If George didn\rquote t end on an Outworld, they would have to wait for grandchildren before a next chance would come along, and that was too far in the future to be much consolation.\f0\par
\f1 Reading Day would not prove much, of course, but it would be the only indication they would have before the big day itself. Every parent on Earth would be listening to the quality of reading when his child came home with it; listening for any particularly easy flow of words and building that into certain omens of the future. There were few families that didn\rquote t have at least one hopeful who, from Reading Day on, was the great hope because of the way he handled his trisyllabics.\f0\par
\f1 Dimly, George was aware of the cause of his parents\rquote  tension, and if there was any anxiety in his young heart that drizzly morning, it was only the fear that his father\rquote s hopeful expression might fade out when he returned home with his reading.\f0\par
\f1 The children met in the large assembly room of the town\rquote s Education hall. All over Earth, in millions of local halls, throughout that month, similar groups of children would be meeting. George felt depressed by the grayness of the room and by the other children, strained and stiff in unaccustomed finery.\f0\par
Automatically, George did as all the rest of the children did. He found the small clique that represented the children on his floor of the apartment house and joined them.\par
Trevelyan, who lived immediately next door, still wore his hair childish\-ly long and was years removed from the sideburns and thin, reddish mustache that he was to grow as soon as he was physiologically capable of\par
\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx204 it.\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\f1 Trevelyan (to whom George was then known as Jaw-joe) said, \ldblquote Bet you\rquote re scared.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote I am not,\rdblquote  said George. Then, confidentially, \ldblquote My folks got a hunk of printing up on the dresser in my room, and when! come home, I\rquote m going to read it for them.\rdblquote  (George\rquote s main suffering at the moment lay in the fact\f0\par
\fs20\page\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx204\f1\fs22 that he didn\rquote t quite know where to put his hands. He had been warned not to scratch his head or rub his ears or pick his nose or put his hands into his pockets. This eliminated almost every possibility.)\f0\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249 Trevelyan put \i his \i0\f1 hands in his pockets and said, \ldblquote My father isn\rquote t worried.\rdblquote\f0\par
Trevelyan, Senior, had been a Metallurgist on Diporia for nearly seven years, which gave him a superior social status in his neighborhood even though he had retired and returned to Earth.\par
Earth discouraged these re-immigrants because of population problems, but a small trickle did return. For one thing the cost of living was lower on Earth, and what was a trifling annuity on Diporia, say, was a comfortable income on Earth. Besides, there were always men who found more satisfac\-tion in displaying their success before the friends and scenes of their childhood than before all the rest of the Universe besides.\par
Trevelyan, Senior, further explained that if he stayed on Diporia, so would his children, and Diporia was a one-spaceship world. Back on Earth, his kids could end anywhere, even Novia.\par
Stubby Trevelyan had picked up that item early. Even before Reading Day, his conversation was based on the carelessly assumed fact that his ultimate home would be in Novia.\par
\f1 George, oppressed by thoughts of the other\rquote s future greatness and his own small-time contrast, was driven to beffigerent defense at once.\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote My father isn\rquote t worried either. He just wants to hear me read because he knows I\rquote ll be good. I suppose your father would just as soon not hear you because he knows you\rquote ll be all wrong.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote I wifi not be all wrong. Reading is \i\f0 nothing. \i0\f1 On Novia, I\rquote ll \i\f0 hire \i0\f1 people to read to me.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Because \i\f0 you \i0\f1 won\rquote t be able to read yourself, on account of you\rquote re \i dumb!\rdblquote\f0\par
\i0\f1\ldblquote Then how come I\rquote ll be on Novia?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 And George, driven, made the great denial. \ldblquote Who says you\rquote ll be on Novia? Bet you don\rquote t go anywhere.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 Stubby Trevelyan reddened. \ldblquote I won\rquote t be a Pipe Fitterlike yonrold man.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Take that back, you dumbhead.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote You take \i\f0 that \i0\f1 back.\rdblquote\f0\par
They stood nose to nose, not wanting to fight but relieved at having something familiar to do in this strange place. Furthermore, now that George had curled his hands into fists and lifted them before his face, the problem of what to do with his hands was, at least temporarily, solved. Other children gathered round excitedly.\par
\f1 But then it all ended when a woman\rquote s voice sounded loudly over the public address system. There was instant silence everywhere. George dropped his fists and forgot Trevelyan.\f0\par
\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\f1\ldblquote Children,\rdblquote  said the voice, \ldblquote we are going to call out your names. As each child is called, he or she is to go to one of the men waiting along the\f0\par
\fs20\page\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx204\f1\fs22 side walls. Do you see them? They are wearing red unifonns so they will be easy to find. The girls will go to the right. The boys will go to the left. Now look about and see which man in red is nearest to you\emdash\rdblquote\f0\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249 George found his man at a glance and waited for his name to be called off. He had not been introduced before this to the sophistications of the alphabet, and the length of time it took to reach his own name grew disturbing.\par
The crowd of children thinned; little rivulets made their way to each of the red-clad guides.\par
\f1 When the name \ldblquote George Platen\rdblquote  was finally called, his sense of relief was exceeded only by the feeling of pure gladness at the fact that Stubby Trevelyan still stood in his place, uncalled.\f0\par
\f1 George shouted back over his shoulder as he left, \ldblquote Yay, Stubby, maybe they don\rquote t want you.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 That moment of gaiety quickly left. He was herded into a line and directed down corridors in the company of strange children. They all looked at one another, large-eyed and concerned, but beyond a snuffling, \ldblquote Quitcher pushing\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Hey, watch out\rdblquote  there was no conversation.\f0\par
\f1 They were handed little slips of paper which they were told must remain with them. George stared at his curiously. Little black marks of different shapes. He knew it to be printing but how could anyone make words out of it? He couldn\rquote t imagine.\f0\par
He was told to strip; he and four other boys who were all that now remained together. All the new clothes came shucking off and four eight\-year-olds stood naked and small, shivering more out of embarrassment than cold. Medical technicians came past, probing them, testing them with odd instruments, pricking them for blood. Each took the little cards and made additional marks on them with little black rods that produced the marks, all neatly lined up, with great speed. George stared at the new marks, but they were no more comprehensible than the old. The children were ordered back into their clothes.\par
\f1 They sat on separate little chairs then and waited again. Names were called again and \ldblquote George Platen\rdblquote  came third.\f0\par
He moved into a large room, filled with frightening instruments with knobs and glassy panels in front. There was a desk in the very center, and behind it a man sat, his eyes on the papers piled before him.\par
\f1 He said, \ldblquote George Platen?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Yes, sir,\rdblquote  said George in a shaky whisper. All this waiting and all this going here and there was making him nervous. He wished it were over.\f0\par
\f1 The man behind the desk said, \ldblquote I am Dr. Lloyed, George. How are you?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 The doctor didn\rquote t look up as he spoke. It was as though he had said those words over and over again and didn\rquote t have to look up any more.\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote I\rquote m all right.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Are you afraid, George?\rdblquote\f0\par
\fs20\page\pard\fi249\sl-124\slmult0\qj\tx249\f1\fs22\ldblquote N\emdash no, sir,\rdblquote  said George, sounding afraid even in his own ears.\f0\par
\pard\sl-124\slmult0\qj\tx249\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\f1\ldblquote That\rquote s good,\rdblquote  said the doctor, \ldblquote because there\rquote s nothing to be afraid of, you know. Let\rquote s see, George. It says here on your card that your father is named Peter and that he\rquote s a Registered Pipe Fitter and your mother is named Amy and is a Registered Home Technician. Is that right?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Y\emdash yes, sir.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote And your birthday is February 13, and you had an ear infection about a year ago. Right?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\lquote\lquote Yes, sir.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Do you know how I know all these things?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote It\rquote s on the card, Ithink, sir.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote That\rquote s right.\rdblquote  The doctor looked up at George for the first time and smiled. He showed even teeth and looked much younger than George\rquote s father. Some of George\rquote s nervousness vanished.\f0\par
\f1 The doctor passed the card to George. \ldblquote Do you know what all those things there mean, George?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 Although George knew he did not he was startled by the sudden request into looking at the card as though he might understand now through some sudden stroke of fate. But they were just marks as before and he passed the card back. \ldblquote No, sir.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Why not?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 George felt a sudden pang of suspicion concerning the sanity of this doctor. Didn\rquote t he know why not?\f0\par
\f1 George said, \ldblquote I can\rquote t read, sir.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Would you like to read?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\lquote\lquote Yes, sir.\rquote\rquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Why, George?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 George stared, appalled. No one had ever asked him that. He had no answer. He said falteringly, \ldblquote I don\rquote t know, sir.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Printed information will direct you all through your life. There is so much you\rquote ll have to know even after Education Day. Cards like this one will tell you. Books will tell you. Television screens will tell you. Printing will tell you such useful things and such interesting things that not being able to read would be as bad as not being able to see. Do you understand?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Yes, sir.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Are you afraid, George?\rdblquote\f0\par
\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\par
\pard\fi249\sl-124\slmult0\qj\tx249\f1 No,sir.\rquote\rquote\f0\par
Good. Now I ll tell you exactly what we ll do first. I m gomg to put\par
\pard\sl-124\slmult0\qj\tx249\par
\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx204\f1 these wires on your forehead just over the corners of your eyes. They\rquote ll stick there but they won\rquote t hurt at all. Then, I\rquote ll ~ on something that wifi make a buzz. It will sound funny and it may tickle you, but it won\rquote t hurt. Now if it does hurt, you tell me, and I\rquote ll turn it off right away, but it won\rquote t hurt. All right?\rdblquote\f0\par
\pard\fi249\sl-124\slmult0\qj\tx249 George nodded and swallowed.\par
\pard\sl-124\slmult0\qj\tx249\par
\pard\fi249\sl-124\slmult0\qj\tx249\f1\ldblquote Are you ready?\rdblquote\f0\par
\fs20\page\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\f1\fs22 George nodded. He closed his eyes while the doctor busied himself. His parents had explained this to him. They, too, had said it wouldn\rquote t hurt, but then there were always the older children. There were the ten- and twelve\f0\-\f1 year-olds who howled after the eight-year-olds waiting for Reading Day, \ldblquote Watch out for the needle.\rdblquote  There were the others who took you off in confidence and said, \ldblquote They got to cut your head open. They use a sharp knife that big with a hook on it,\rdblquote  and so on into horrifying details.\f0\par
George had never believed them but he had had nightmares, and now closed his eyes and felt pure terror.\par
\f1 He didn\rquote t feel the wires at his temple. The buzz was a distant thing, and there was the sound of his own blood in his ears, ringing hollowly as though it and he were in a large cave. Slowly he chanced opening his eyes.\f0\par
The doctor had his back to him. From one of the instruments a strip of paper unwound and was covered with a thin, wavy purple line. The doctor tore off pieces and put them into a slot in another machine. He did it over and over again. Each time a little piece of film came out, which the doctor looked at. Finally, he turned toward George with a queer frown between his eyes.\par
The buzzing stopped.\par
\f1 George said breathlessly, \ldblquote Is it over?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 The doctor said, \ldblquote Yes,\rdblquote  but he was still frowning.\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Can I read now?\rdblquote  asked George. He felt no different.\f0\par
\f1 The doctor said, \ldblquote What?\rdblquote  then smiled very suddenly and briefly. He said, \ldblquote It works fine, Geoge. You\rquote ll be reading in fifteen minutes. Now we\rquote re going to use another machine this time and it wifi take longer. I\rquote m going to cover your whole head, and when I turn it on you won\rquote t be able to see or hear anything for a while, but it won\rquote t hurt. Just to make sure I\rquote m going to give you a little switch to hold in your hand. If anything hurts, you press the little button and everything shuts off. All right?\rdblquote\f0\par
In later years, George was told that the little switch was strictly a dummy; that it was introduced solely for confidence. He never did know for sure, however, since he never pushed the button.\par
A large smoothly curved helmet with a rubbery inner lining was placed over his head and left there. Three or four little knobs seemed to grab at him and bite into his skull, but there was only a little pressure that faded. No pain.\par
\f1 The doctor\rquote s voice sounded dimly. \ldblquote Everything all right, George?\rdblquote\f0\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\tx249\f1 And then, with no real warning, a layer of thick felt closed down all about him. He was disembodied, there was no sensation, no universe, only himself and a distant murmur at the very ends of nothingness telling him something\emdash telling him\emdash telling him\emdash  He strained to hear and understand but there was all that thick felt between.\f0\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\f1 Then the helmet was taken off his head, and the light was so bright that it hurt his eyes while the doctor\rquote s voice drummed at his ears.\f0\par
\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\f1 The doctor said, \ldblquote Here\rquote s your card, George. What does it say?\rdblquote\f0\par
\fs20\page\f1\fs22 George looked at his card again and gave out a strangled shout. The marks weren\rquote t just marks at all. They made up words. They were words just as clearly as though something were whispering them in his ears. He could \i\f0 hear \i0 them being whispered as he looked at them.\par
\f1\ldblquote What does it say, George?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote It says\emdash it says\emdash\rquote Platen, George. Born 13 February 6492 of Peter and Amy Platen in. \f2\fs8 . .\lquote  \f1\fs22\ldblquote He broke off.\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote You can read, George,\rdblquote  said the doctor. \ldblquote It\rquote s all over.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote For good? I won\rquote t forget how?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Of course not.\rdblquote  The doctor leaned over to shake hands gravely. \ldblquote You will be taken home now.\rdblquote\f0\par
It was days before George got over this new and great talent of his. He read for his father with such facility that Platen, Senior, wept and called relatives to tell the good news.\par
George walked about town, reading every scrap of printing he could find and wondering how it was that none of it had ever made sense to him before.\par
\f1 He tried to remember how it was not to be able to read and he couldn\rquote t. As far as his feeling about it was concerned, he had always been able to read. Always.\f0\par
\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\f1 At eighteen, George was rather dark, of medium height, but thin enough to look taller. Trevelyan, who was scarcely an inch shorter, had a stockiness of build that made \ldblquote Stubby\rdblquote  more than ever appropriate, but in this last year he had grown self-conscious. The nickname could no longer be used without reprisal. And since Trevelyan disapproved of his proper first name even more strongly, he was called Trevelyan or any decent variant of that. As though to prove his manhood further, he had most persistently \f0 grown a pair of sideburns and a bristly mustache.\par
\f1 He was sweating and nervous now, and George, who had himself grown out of \ldblquote Jaw-jee\rdblquote  and into the curt monosyllabic gutterality of \ldblquote George,\rdblquote  was rather amused by that.\f0\par
They were in the same large hall they had been in ten years before (and not since). It was as if a vague dream of the past had come to sudden reality. In the first few minutes George had been distinctly surprised at finding everything seem smaller and more cramped than his memory told him; then he made allowance for his own growth.\par
The crowd was smaller than it had been in childhood. It was exclusively male this time. The girls had another day assigned them.\par
\f1 Trevelyan leaned over to say, \ldblquote Beats me the way they make you wait.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Red tape,\rdblquote  said George. \ldblquote You can\rquote t avoid it.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 Trevelyan said, \ldblquote What makes \i\f0 you \i0\f1 so damned tolerant about it?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote I\rquote ve got nothing to worry about.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Oh, brother, you make me sick. I hope you end up Registered Manure Spreader just so I can see your face when you do.\rdblquote  His somber eyes swept the crowd anxiously.\f0\par
\f1 George looked about, too. It wasn\rquote t quite the system they used on the\f0\par
\fs20\page\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx204\fs22 children. Matters went slower, and instructions had been given out at the start in print (an advantage over the pre-Readers). The names Platen and Trevelyan were well down the alphabet still, but this time the two knew it.\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249 Young men came out of the education rooms, frowning and uncomfort\-able, picked up their clothes and belongings, then went off to analysis to learn the results.\par
\f1 Each, as he came out, would be surrounded by a clot of the thinning crowd. \ldblquote How was it?\rdblquote  \ldblquote How\rquote d it feel?\rdblquote  \ldblquote Whacha think ya made?\rdblquote  \ldblquote Ya feel any different?\rdblquote\f0\par
Answers were vague and noncommittal.\par
George forced himself to remain out of those clots. You only raised your own blood pressure. Everyone said you stood the best chance if you remained calm. Even so, you could feel the palms of your hands grow cold. Funny that new tensions came with the years.\par
For instance, high-specialty professionals heading out for an Outworld were accompanied by a wife (or husband). It was important to keep the sex ratio in good balance on all worlds. And if you were going out to a Grade A world, what girl would refuse you? George had no specific girl in mind yet; he wanted none. Not now! Once he made Programmer; once he could add to his name, Registered Computer Programmer, he could take his pick, like a sultan in a harem. The thought excited him and he tried to put it away. Must stay calm.\par
\f1 Trevelyan muttered, \ldblquote What\rquote s it all about anyway? First they say it works best if you\rquote re relaxed and at ease. Then they put you through this and make it impossible for you to be relaxed and at ease.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Maybe that\rquote s the idea. They\rquote re separating the boys from the men to begin with. Take it easy, Trev.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Shut up.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 George\rquote s turn came. His name was not called. It appeared in glowing letters on the notice board.\f0\par
\f1 He waved at Trevelyan. \ldblquote Take it easy, Trev. Don\rquote t let it get you.\rdblquote\f0\par
He was happy as he entered the testing chamber. Actually happy.\par
\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\f1 The man behind the desk said, \ldblquote George Platen?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 For a fleeting instant there was a razor-sharp picture in George\rquote s mind of another man, ten years earlier, who had asked the same question, and it was almost as though this were the same man and he, George, had turned eight again as he stepped across the threshold.\f0\par
But the man looked up and, of course, the face matched that of the sudden memory not at all. The nose was bulbous, the hair thin and stringy, and the chin wattled as though its owner had once been grossly overweight and had reduced.\par
\f1 The man behind the desk looked annoyed. \ldblquote Well?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 George came to Earth. \ldblquote I\rquote m George Platen, sir.\rdblquote\f0\par
\fs20\page\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\tx249\f1\fs22\ldblquote Say so, then. I\rquote m Dr. Zachary Antonelli, and we\rquote re going to be intimately acquainted in a moment.\rdblquote\f0\par
He stared at small strips of film, holding them up to the light owlishly. George winced inwardly. Very hazily, he remembered that other doctor (he had forgotten the name) staring at such film. Could these be the same? The other doctor had frowned and this one was looking at him now as though he were angry.\par
His happiness was already just about gone.\par
\f1 Dr. Antonelli spread the pages of a thickish file out before him now and put the films carefully to one side. \ldblquote It says here you want to be a Computer Programmer.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Yes, doctor.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\lquote\lquote Still do?\rquote\rquote\f0\par
\f1\lquote\lquote Yes, sir.\rquote\rquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote It\rquote s a responsible and exacting position. Do you feel up to it?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\lquote\lquote Yes, sir.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Most pre-Educates don\rquote t put down any specific profession. I believe they are afraid of queering it.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\lquote\lquote I think that\rquote s tight, sir.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Aren\rquote t you afraid of that?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote I might as well be honest, sir.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 Dr. Antonelli nodded, but without any noticeable lightening of his expression. \ldblquote Why do you want to be a Programmer?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote It\rquote s a responsible and exacting position as you said, sir. It\rquote s an im\f0\-\f1 portant job and an exciting one. I like it and! think I can do it.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 Dr. Antonelli put the papers away, and looked at George sourly. He said, \ldblquote How do you know you like it? Because you think you\rquote ll be snapped up by some Grade A planet?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 George thought uneasily: He\rquote s trying to rattle you. Stay calm and stay frank.\f0\par
\f1 He said, \ldblquote I think a Programmer has a good chance, sir, but even if I were left on Earth, I know I\rquote d like it.\rdblquote  (That was true enough. I\rquote m not lying, thought George.)\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote All right, how do you know?\rdblquote\f0\par
He asked it as though he knew there was no decent answer and George almost smiled. He had one.\par
\f1 He said, \ldblquote I\rquote ve been reading about Programming, sir.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote You\rquote ve been \i what?\rdblquote  \i0\f0 Now the doctor looked genuinely astonished and George took pleasure in that.\par
\f1\ldblquote Reading about it, sir. I bought a book on the subject and I\rquote ve been studying it.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote A book for Registered Programmers?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\lquote\lquote Yes, sir.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote But you couldn\rquote t understand it.\rdblquote\f0\par
\fs20\page\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\f1\fs22\ldblquote Not at first. I got other books on mathematics and electronics. I made out all I could. I still don\rquote t know much, but I know enough to know I like it and to know I can make it.\rdblquote  (Even his parents never found that secret cache of books or knew why he spent so much time in his own room or exactly what happened to the sleep he missed.)\f0\par
\f1 The doctor pulled at the loose skin under his chin. \ldblquote What was your idea in doing that, son?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote I wanted to make sure I would be interested, sir.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Surely you know that being interested means nothing. You could be devoured by a subject and if the physical makeup of your brain makes it more efficient for you to be something else, something else you will be. You know that, don\rquote t you?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote I\rquote ve been told that,\rdblquote  said George cautiously.\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Well, believe it. It\rquote s true.\rdblquote\f0\par
George said nothing.\par
\f1 Dr. Antonelli said, \ldblquote Or do you believe that studying some subject will bend the brain cells in that direction, like that other theory that a pregnant woman need only listen to great music persistently to make a composer of her child. Do you believe that?\rdblquote\f0\par
George flushed. That had certainly been in his mind. By forcing his intellect constantly in the desired direction, he had felt sure that he would be getting a head start. Most of his confidence had rested on exactly that point.\par
\f1\ldblquote I never\emdash\rdblquote  he began, and found no way of finishing.\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Well, it isn\rquote t true. Good Lord, youngster, your brain pattern is fixed at birth. It can be altered by a blow hard enough to damage the cells or by a burst blood vessel or by a tumor or by a major infection\emdash each time, of course, for the worse. But it certainly can\rquote t be affected by your thinking special thoughts.\rdblquote  He stared at George thoughtfully, then said, \ldblquote Who told you to do this?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 George, now thoroughly disturbed, swallowed and said, \ldblquote No one, doctor. My own idea.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Who knew you were doing it after you started?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote No one. Doctor, I meant to do no wrong.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Who said anything about wrong? Useless is what I would say. Why did you keep it to yourself?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote I\emdash I thought they\rquote d laugh at me.\rdblquote  (He thought abruptly of a recent exchange with Trevelyan. George had very cautiously broached the thought, as of something merely circulating distantly in the very outermost reaches of his mind, concerning the possibility of learning something by ladling it into the mind by hand, so to speak, in bits and pieces. Trevelyan had hooted, \ldblquote George, you\rquote ll be tanning your own shoes next and weaving your own shirts.\rdblquote  He had been thankful for his policy of secrecy.)\f0\par
\f1 Dr. Antonelli shoved the bits of film he had first looked at from position to position in morose thought. Then he said, \ldblquote Let\rquote s get you analyzed. This is getting me nowhere.\rdblquote\f0\par
\fs20\page\f1\fs22 The wires went to George\rquote s temples. There was the buzzing. Again there came a sharp memory of ten years ago.\f0\par
\f1 George\rquote s hands were clammy; his heart pounded. He should never have told the doctor about his secret reading.\f0\par
It was his damned vanity, he told himself. He had wanted to show how enterprising he was, how full of initiative. Instead, he had showed himself superstitious and ignorant and aroused the hostility of the doctor. (He could tell the doctor hated him for a wise guy on the make.)\par
And now he had brought himself to such a state of nervousness, he was sure the analyzer would show nothing that made sense.\par
\f1 He wasn\rquote t aware of the moment when the wires were removed from his temples. The sight of the doctor, staring at him thoughtfully, blinked into his consciousness and that was that; the wires were gone. George dragged himself together with a tearing effort. He had quite given up his ambition to be a Programmer. In the space of ten minutes, it had all gone.\f0\par
\f1 He said dismally, \ldblquote I suppose no?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote No what?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote No Programmer?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 The doctor rubbed his nose and said, \ldblquote You get your clothes and whatever belongs to you and go to room \i\f0 15-C. \i0\f1 Your files will be waiting for you there. So will my report.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 George said in complete surprise, \ldblquote Have I been Educated already? I thought this was just to\emdash\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 Dr. Antonelli stared down at his desk. \ldblquote It will all be explained to you. You do as I say.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 George felt something like panic. What was it they couldn\rquote t tell him? He wasn\rquote t fit for anything but Registered Laborer. They were going to prepare him for that; adjust him to it.\f0\par
He was suddenly certain of it and he had to keep from screaming by main force.\par
He stumbled back to his place of waiting. Trevelyan was not there, a fact for which he would have been thankful if he had had enough self-possession to be meaningfully aware of his surroundings. Hardly anyone was left, in fact, and the few who were looked as though they might ask him questions were it not that they were too worn out by their tail-of-the-alphabet waiting to buck the fierce, hot look of anger and hate he cast at them.\par
What right had \i they \i0 to be technicians and he, himself, a Laborer? Laborer! He was \i certain!\par
\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\i0\f1 He was led by a red-uniformed guide along the busy corridors lined with separate rooms each containing its groups, here two, there five: the Motor Mechanics the Construction Engineers, the Agronomists\emdash  There were hundreds of specialized Professions and most of them would be represented in this small town by one or two anyway.\f0\par
He hated them all just then: the Statisticians, the Accountants, the lesser\par
\fs20\page\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx204\fs22 breeds and the higher. He hated them because they owned their smug knowledge now, knew their fate, while he himself, empty still, had to face some kind of further red tape.\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249 He reached \i 15-C, \i0 was ushered in and left in an empty room. For one moment, his spirits bounded. Surely, if this were the Labor classification room, there would be dozens of youngsters present.\par
A door sucked into its recess on the other side of a waist-high partition and an elderly, white-haired man stepped out. He smiled and showed even teeth that were obviously false, but his face was still ruddy and unlined and his voice had vigor.\par
\f1 He said, \ldblquote Good evening, George. Our own sector has only one of you this time, I see.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Only one?\rdblquote  said George blanidy.\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Thousands over the Earth, of course. Thousands. You\rquote re not alone.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 George felt exasperated. He said, \ldblquote I don\rquote t understand, sir. What\rquote s my classification? What\rquote s happening?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Easy, son. You\rquote re all right. It could happen to anyone.\rdblquote  He held out his hand and George took it mechanically. It was warm and it pressed George\rquote s hand firmly. \ldblquote Sit down, son. I\rquote m Sam Ellenford.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 George nodded impatiently. \ldblquote I want to know what\rquote s going on, sir.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Of course. To begin with, you can\rquote t be a Computer Programmer, George. You\rquote ve guessed that, I think.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Yes, I have,\rdblquote  said George bitterly. \ldblquote What will I be, then?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote That\rquote s the hard part to explain, George.\rdblquote  He paused, then said with careful distinctness, \ldblquote Nothing.\rdblquote\f0\par
\pard\li272\qj\tx272\i\f1\ldblquote What!\rdblquote\f0\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\i0\f1\ldblquote Nothing!\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote But what does that mean? Why can\rquote t you assign me a profession?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote We have no choice in the matter, George. It\rquote s the structure of your mind that decides that.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 George went a sallow yellow. His eyes bulged. \ldblquote There\rquote s something wrong with my mind?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote There\rquote s \i\f0 something \i0\f1 about it. As far as professional classification is concerned, I suppose you can call it wrong.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote But why?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 Ellenford shrugged. \ldblquote I\rquote m sure you know how Earth runs its Educational program, George. Practically any human being can absorb practically any body of knowledge, but each individual brain pattern is better suited to receiving some types of knowledge than others. We try to match mind to knowledge as well as we can within the limits of the quota requirements for each profession.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 George nodded. \ldblquote Yes, Iknow.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Every once in awhile, George, we come up against a young man whose mind is not suited to receiving a superimposed knowledge of any sort.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote You mean I can\rquote t be Educated?\rdblquote\f0\par
\fs20\page\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\tx249\f1\fs22\ldblquote That is what Imean.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote But that\rquote s crazy. I\rquote m intelligent. I can understand\emdash\rdblquote  He looked helplessly about as though trying to find some way of proving that he had a functioning brain.\f0\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\f1\ldblquote Don\rquote t misunderstand me, please,\rdblquote  said Ellenford gravely. \ldblquote You\rquote re intelligent. There\rquote s no question about that. You\rquote re even above average in intelligence. Unfortunately that has nothing to do with whether the mind ought to be allowed to accept superimposed knowledge or not. In fact, it is almost always the intelligent person who comes here.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote You mean I can\rquote t even be a Registered Laborer?\rdblquote  babbled George. Suddenly even that was better than the blank that faced him. \ldblquote What\rquote s there to know to be a Laborer?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Don\rquote t underestimate the Laborer, young man. There are dozens of subclassifications and each variety has its own corpus of fairly detailed knowledge. Do you think there\rquote s no skill in knowing the proper maimer of lifting a weight? Besides, for the Laborer, we must select not only minds suited to it, but bodies as well. You\rquote re not the type, George, to last long as a Laborer.\rdblquote\f0\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\tx249\f1 George was conscious of his slight build. He said, \ldblquote But I\rquote ve never heard of anyone without a profession.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote There aren\rquote t many,\rdblquote  conceded Ellenford. \ldblquote And we protect them.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Protect them?\rdblquote  George felt confusion and fright grow higher in-side him.\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote You\rquote re a ward of the planet, George. From the time you walked through that door, we\rquote ve been in charge of you.\rdblquote  And he smiled.\f0\par
It was a fond smile. To George it seemed the smile of ownership; the smile of a grown man for a helpless child.\par
\f1 He said, \ldblquote You mean, I\rquote m going to be in prison?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Of course not. You will simply be with others of your kind.\rdblquote\f0\par
\i Your kind. \i0\f1 The words made a kind of thunder in George\rquote s ear.\f0\par
\f1 Ellenford said, \ldblquote You need special treatment. We\rquote ll take care of you.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 To George\rquote s own horror, he burst into tears. Ellenford walked to the other end of the room and faced away as though in thought.\f0\par
\pard\li249\sl-238\slmult0\tx249\f1 George fought to reduce the agonized weeping to sobs and then to strangle those. He thought of his father and mother, of his friends, of Trevelyan, of his own shame\emdash  He said rebelliously, \ldblquote I learned to read.\rdblquote\f0\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\tx249\f1\ldblquote Everyone with a whole mind can do that. We\rquote ve never found excep\f0\-\f1 tions. It is at this stage that we discover\emdash exceptions. And when you learned to read, George, we were concerned about your mind pattern. Certain peculiarities were reported even then by the doctor in charge.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Can\rquote t you try Educating me? You haven\rquote t even tried. I\rquote m willing to take the risk.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote The law forbids us to do that, George. But look, it will not be bad. We will explain matters to your family so they will not be hurt. At the place to\f0\par
\fs20\page\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx204\f1\fs22 which you\rquote ll be taken, you\rquote ll be allowed privileges. We\rquote ll get you books and you can learn what you will.\rdblquote\f0\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\f1\ldblquote Dab knowledge in by hand,\rdblquote  said George bitterly. \ldblquote Shred by shred. Then, when I die I\rquote ll know enough to be a Registered Junior Office Boy, Paper-Clip Division.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Yet I understand you\rquote ve already been studying books.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 George froze. He was struck devastatingly by sudden understanding. \lquote\lquote That\rquote s \f3 it. \f4\fs8 .\par
\f5\fs22\lquote\lquote What\rquote s it?\rquote\rquote\f3\par
\f5\ldblquote That fellow Antonelli. He\rquote s knifing me.\rdblquote\f3\par
\f5\ldblquote No, George. You\rquote re \f1 quite wrong.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Don\rquote t tell me that.\rdblquote  George was in an ecstasy of fury. \ldblquote That lousy bastard is selling me out because he thought I was a little too wise for him. I read books and tried to get a head start toward programming. Well, what do you want to square things? Money? You won\rquote t get it. I\rquote m getting out of here and when I finish broadcasting this\emdash\rdblquote\f0\par
He was screaming.\par
Ellenford shook his head and touched a contact.\par
Two men entered on catfeet and got on either side of George. They pinned his arms to his sides. One of them used an air-spray hypodennic in the hollow of his right elbow and the hypnotic entered his vein and had an almost immediate effect.\par
His screams cut off and his head fell forward. His knees buckled and only the men on either side kept him erect as he slept.\par
\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\f1 They took care of George as they said they would; they were good to him and unfailingly kind\emdash about the way, George thought, he himself would be to a sick kitten he had taken pity on.\f0\par
They told him that he should sit up and take some interest in life; and then told him that most people who came there had the same attitude of despair at the beginning and that he would snap out of it.\par
\f1 He didn\rquote t even hear them.\f0\par
Dr. Ellenford himself visited him to tell him that his parents had been informed that he was away on special assignment.\par
\f1 George muttered, \ldblquote Do they know\emdash\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 Ellenford assured him at once, \ldblquote We gave no details.\rdblquote\f0\par
At first George had refused to eat. They fed him intravenously. They hid sharp objects and kept him under guard. Hali Omani came to be his roommate and his stolidity had a calming effect.\par
One day, out of sheer desperate boredom, George asked for a book. Omani, who himself read books constantly, looked up, smiling broadly. George almost withdrew the request then, rather than give any of them satisfaction, then thought: What do I care?\par
\f1 He didn\rquote t specify the book and Omani brought one on chemistry. It was in big print, with small words and many illustrations. It was for teen-agers. He threw the book violently against the wall.\f0\par
\fs20\page\f1\fs22 That\rquote s what he would be always. A teen-ager all his life. A pre-Educate forever and special books would have to be written for him. He lay smoldering in bed, staring at the ceiling, and after an hour had passed, he got up sulkily, picked up the book, and began reading.\f0\par
\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249 It took him a week to finish it and then he asked foi another.\par
\f1\ldblquote Do you want to take the first one \f5 back?\rdblquote  \f0 asked Omani.\par
George frowned. There were things in the book he had not understood, yet he was not so lost to shame as to say so.\par
\f1 But Omani said, \ldblquote Come to think of it, you\rquote d better keep it. Books are meant to be read and reread.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 It was that same day that he finally yielded to Omani\rquote s invitation that he tour the place. He dogged at the Nigerian\rquote s feet and took in his surroundings with quick hostile glances.\f0\par
The place was no prison certainly. There were no walls, no locked doors, no guards. But it was a prison in that the inmates had no place to go outside.\par
\f1 It was somehow good to see others like himself by the dozen. It was so easy to believe himself to be the only one in the world so\emdash maimed.\f0\par
\f1 He mumbled, \ldblquote How many people here anyway?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Two hundred and five, George, and this isn\rquote t the only place of the sort in the world. There are thousands.\rdblquote\f0\par
Men looked up as he passed, wherever he went; in the gymnasium, along the tennis courts; through the library (he had never in his life imagined books could exist in such numbers; they were stacked, actually stacked, along long shelves). They stared at him curiously and he returned the looks savagely. At least \i they \i0 were no better than he; no call for \i them \i0 to look at him as though he were some sort of curiosity.\par
\f1 Most of them were in their twenties. George said suddenly, \ldblquote What happens to the older ones?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 Omani said, \ldblquote This place specializes in the younger ones.\rdblquote  Then, as though he suddenly recognized an implication in George\rquote s question that he had missed earlier, he shook his head gravely and said, \ldblquote They\rquote re not put out of the way, if that\rquote s what you mean. There are other Houses for older ones.\rquote\rquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Who cares?\rdblquote  mumbled George, who felt he was sounding too in\f0\-terested and in danger of slipping into surrender.\par
\f1\ldblquote You might. As you grow older, you will find yourself in a House with Occupants of both sexes.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 That surprised George somehow. \ldblquote Women, too?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\lquote Of course. Do you suppose women are immune to this sort of thing?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 George thought of that with more interest and excitement than he had felt for anything since before that day when\emdash  He forced his thought away from that.\f0\par
\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\par
\pard\fi249\sl-124\slmult0\qj\tx249 Ornani stopped at the doorway of a room that contained a small closed\-Circuit television and a desk computer. Five or six men sat about the\par
\pard\sl-124\slmult0\qj\tx249\par
\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx204\f1 television Orn~ said, \ldblquote This is a classroom.\rdblquote\f0\par
\fs20\page\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\f1\fs22 George said, \ldblquote What\rquote s that?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote The young men in there are being educated. Not,\rdblquote  he added, quickly, \ldblquote in the usual way.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote You mean they\rquote re cramming it in bit by bit.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote That\rquote s right. This is the way everyone did it in ancient times.\rdblquote\f0\par
This was what they kept telling him since he had come to the House but what of it? Suppose there had been a day when mankind had not known the diatherm-oven. Did that mean he should be satisfied to eat meat raw in a world where others ate it cooked?\par
\f1 He said, \ldblquote Why do they want to go through that bit-by-bit stuff?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote To pass the time, George, and because they\rquote re curious.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote What good does it do them?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote It makes them happier.\rdblquote\f0\par
George carried that thought to bed with him.\par
\f1 The next day he said to Omani ungraciously, \ldblquote Can you get me into a classroom where I can find out something about programming?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 Omarn replied heartily, \ldblquote Sure.\rdblquote\f0\par
\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\f1 It was slow and he resented it. Why should someone have to explain something and explain it again? Why should he have to read and reread a passage, then stare at a mathematical relationship and not understand it at once? That wasn\rquote t how other people had to be.\f0\par
Over and over again, he gave up. Once he refused to attend classes for a week.\par
But always he returned. The official in charge, who assigned reading, conducted the television demonstrations, and even explained difficult pas\-sages and concepts, never commented on the matter.\par
\f1 George was finally given a regular task in the gardens and took his turn in the various kitchen and cleaning details. This was represented to him as being an advance, but he wasn\rquote t fooled. The place might have been far more mechanized than it was, but they deliberately made work for the young men in order to give them the illusion of worthwhile occupation, of usefulness. George wasn\rquote t fooled.\f0\par
They were even paid small sums of money out of which they could buy certain specified luxuries or which they could put aside for a problematical use in a problematical old age. George kept his money in an open jar, which he kept on a closet shelf. He had no idea how much he had accumulated. Nor did he care.\par
He made no real friends though he reached the stage where a civil good day was in order. He even stopped brooding (or almost stopped) on the miscarriage of justice that had placed him there. He would go weeks without dreaming of Antonelli, of his gross nose and wattled neck, of the leer with which he would push George into a boiling quicksand and hold him under, till he woke screaming with Omani bending over him in concern.\par
\fs20\page\f1\fs22 Omani said to him on a snowy day in February, \ldblquote It\rquote s amazing how you\rquote re adjusting.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 But that was February, the thirteenth to be exact, his nineteenth birthday. March came, then April, and with the approach of May he realized he hadn\rquote t adjusted at all.\f0\par
The previous May had passed unregarded while George was still in his bed, drooping and ambitionless. This May was different.\par
All over Earth, George knew, Olympics would be taking place and young men would be competing, matching their skills against one another in the fight for a place on a new world. There would be the holiday atmosphere, the excitement, the news reports, the self-contained recruiting agents from the worlds beyond space, the glory of victory or the consola\-tions of defeat.\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\tx249\f1 How much of fiction dealt with these motifs; how much of his own boyhood excitement lay in following the events of Olympics from year to year; how many of his own plans\emdash  George Platen could not conceal the longing in his voice. It was too much to suppress. He said, \ldblquote Tomorrow\rquote s the first of May. Olympics!\rdblquote\f0\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\f1 And that led to his first quarrel with Omani and to Omani\rquote s bitter enunciation of the exact name of the institution in which George found himself.\f0\par
\f1 Omani gazed fixedly at George and said distinctly, \ldblquote A House for the Feeble-minded.\rdblquote\f0\par
\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249 George Platen flushed. Feeble-minded!\par
\f1 He rejected it desperately. He said in a monotone, \ldblquote I\rquote m leaving.\rdblquote\f0\par
He said it on impulse. His conscious mind learned it first from the statement as he uttered it.\par
\f1 Omani, who had returned to his book, looked up. \ldblquote What?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 George knew what he was saying now. He said it fiercely, \ldblquote I\rquote m leaving.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote That\rquote s ridiculous. Sit down, George, calm yourself.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Oh, no. I\rquote m here on a frame-up, I tell you. This doctor, Antonelli, took a dislike to me. It\rquote s the sense of power these petty bureaucrats have. Cross them and they wipe out your life with a stylus mark on some card file.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Are you back to that?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote And staying there till it\rquote s all straightened out. I\rquote m going to get to Antonelli somehow, break him, force the truth out of him.\rdblquote  George was breathing heavily and he felt feverish. Olympics month was here and he couldn\rquote t let it pass. If he did, it would be the final surrender and he would be lost for all time.\f0\par
\f1 Omani threw his legs over the side of his bed and stood up. He was nearly six feet tall and the expression on his face gave him the look of a concerned Saint Bernard. He put his arm about George\rquote s shoulder, \ldblquote If I hurt your feelings\emdash\rdblquote\f0\par
\fs20\page\f5\fs22 George shrugged him off. \ldblquote You just said what you thought \f0 was \f3 the truth, \f1 and I\rquote m going to prove it isn\rquote t the truth, that\rquote s all. Why not? The door\rquote s open. There aren\rquote t any \f5 locks. No one ever said I couldn\rquote t leave. I\rquote ll just \f1 walk out.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote All right, but where will you go?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote To the nearest air terminal, then to the nearest Olympics center. I\rquote ve got money.\rdblquote  He seized the open jar that held the wages he had put away. Some of the coins jangled to the floor.\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote That will last you a week maybe. Then what?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote By then I\rquote ll have things settled.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote By then you\rquote ll come crawling back here,\rdblquote  said Omani earnestly, \ldblquote with all the progress you\rquote ve made to do over again. You\rquote re mad, George.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Feeble-minded is the word you used before.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Well, I\rquote m sorry I did. Stay here, will you?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Are you going to try to stop me?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 Omani compressed his full lips. \ldblquote No, I guess I won\rquote t. This is your business. If the only way you can learn is to buck the world and come back with blood on your face, go ahead.\emdash Well, go ahead.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 George was in the doorway now, looking back over his shoulder. \ldblquote I\rquote m going,\rdblquote  \emdash he came back to pick up his pocket grooming set slowly\emdash  \ldblquote I hope you don\rquote t object to my taking a few personal belongings.\rdblquote\f0\par
Omani shrugged. He was in bed again reading, indifferent.\par
\f1 George lingered at the door again, but Omani didn\rquote t look up. George gritted his teeth, turned and walked rapidly down the empty corridor and out into the night-shrouded grounds.\f0\par
\f1 He had expected to be stopped before leaving the grounds. He wasn\rquote t. He \f3 had stopped at an all-night diner to \f0 ask directions to an air terminal \f3 and expected the \f1 proprietor to call the police. That didn\rquote t happen. He sum\f0\-moned a skimmer to take him to the airport and the driver asked no questions.\par
Yet he felt no lift at that. He arrived at the airport sick at heart. \f3 He had not \f0 realized how the outer world would be. He was surrounded by profession\-\f1 als. The diner\rquote s proprietor had had his name inscribed on the plastic shell \f3 over the cash register. So \f0 and \f3 so, Registered Cook. The man in the \f0 skimmer had his license up, Registered Chauffeur. George felt the bareness of his \f3 name \f0 and \f3 experienced a \f0 kind \f3 of nakedness because of it; worse, he felt \f0 skinned. But no one challenged him. No one studied him suspiciously and demanded proof of professional rating.\par
George thought bitterly: Who would imagine any human being with\-out one?\par
He bought a ticket to San Francisco on the 3 \fs18 A.M. \fs22 plane. No other plane for a sizable Olympics center was leaving before morning and he wanted to wait as little as possible. As it was, he sat huddled in the waiting room, watching for the police. They did not come.\par
He was in San Francisco before noon and the noise of the city struck him\par
\fs20\page\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx204\fs22 like a blow. This was the largest city he had ever seen and he had been used to silence and calm for a year and a half now.\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\f3 Worse, it was Olympics month. He almost forgot his own predicament in his sudden awareness that some of the noise, \f0 excitement, confusion was due to that.\par
The Olympics boards were up at the airport for the benefit of the incoming travelers, and crowds jostled around each one. Each major profession had its own board. Each listed directions to the Olympics Hall where the contest for that day for that profession would be given; the indi\-viduals competing and their city of birth; the Outworld (if any) sponsoring it.\par
It was a completely stylized thing. George had read descriptions often enough in the newspnnts and films, watched matches on television, and even witnessed a small Olympics in the Registered Butcher classification at the county seat. Even that, which had no conceivable Galactic implication (there was no Outworlder in attendance, of course) aroused excitement enough.\par
Partly, the excitement was caused simply by the fact of competition, partly by the spur of local pride (oh, when there was a home-town boy to cheer for, though he might be a complete stranger), and, of course, partly by betting. There was no way of stopping the last.\par
George found it difficult to approach the board. He found himself looking at the scurrying, avid onlookers in a new way.\par
There must have been a time when they themselves were Olympic material. What had \i they \i0 done? Nothing!\par
If they had been winners, they would be far out in the Galaxy some\-where, not stuck here on Earth. Whatever they were, their professions must have made them Earth-bait from the beginning; or else they had made themselves Earth-bait by inefficiency at whatever high-specialized profes\-sions they had had.\par
Now these failures stood about and speculated on the chances of newer and younger men. Vultures!\par
How he wished they were speculating on him.\par
\f1 He moved down the line of boards blanidy, clinging to the outskirts of the groups about them. He had eaten breakfast on the strato and he wasn\rquote t hungry. He was afraid, though. He was in abig city during the confusion of the beginning of Olympics competition. That was protection, sure. The city was full of strangers. No one would question George. No one would care about George.\f0\par
No one would care. Not even the House, thought George bitterly. They cared for him like a sick kitten, but if a sick kitten up and wanders off, well, too bad, what can you do?\par
And now that he was in San Francisco, what did he do? His thoughts struck blankly against a wall. See someone? Whom? How? Where would he even stay? The money he had left seemed pitiful.\par
The first shamefaced thought of going back came to him. He could go to\par
\fs20\page\pard\sl-238\slmult0\tx204\f1\fs22 the police\emdash  He shook his head violently as though arguing with a material adversary.\f0\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\tx249 A word caught his eye on one of the boards, gleaming there: \i Metal\-lurgist. \i0 In smaller letters, \i nonferrous. \i0 At the bottom of a long list of names, in flowing script, \i sponsored by Novia.\par
\pard\li249\sl-238\slmult0\tx249\i0\f1 It induced painful memories: himself arguing with Trevelyan, so certain that he himself would be a Programmer, so certain that a Programmer was superior to a Metallurgist, so certain that he was following the right course, so certain that he was clever\emdash  So clever that he had to boast to that small-minded, vindictive Antonelli.\f0\par
\pard\sl-238\slmult0\tx204 He had been so sure of himself that moment when he had been called and had left the nervous Trevelyan standing there, so cocksure.\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\tx249 George cried out in a short, incoherent high-pitched gasp. Someone turned to look at him, then hurried on. People brushed past impatiently pushing him this way and that. He remained staring at the board, open-mouthed.\par
\f1 It was as though the board had answered his thought. He was thinking \ldblquote Trevelyan\rdblquote  so hard that it had seemed for a moment that of course the board would say \ldblquote Trevelyan\rdblquote  back at him.\f0\par
But that \i was \i0 Trevelyan, up there. And \i Armand \i0\f1 Trevelyan (Stubby\rquote s hated first name; up in lights for everyone to see) and the right hometown. What\rquote s more, Trev had wanted Novia, aimed for Novia, insisted on Novia; and this competition was sponsored by Novia.\f0\par
This had to be Trev; good old Trev. Almost without thinking, he noted the directions for getting to the place of competition and took his place in line for a skimmer.\par
Then he thought somberly: Trev made it. He wanted to be a Metallurgist, and he made it!\par
George felt colder, more alone than ever.\par
\pard\sl-238\slmult0\tx249\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\tx249 There was a line waiting to enter the hall. Apparently, Metallurgy Olympics was to be an exciting and closely fought one. At least, the illuminated sky sign above the hail said so, and the jostling crowd seemed to think so.\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249 It would have been a rainy day, George thought, from the color of the sky, but San Francisco had drawn the shield across its breadth from bay to ocean. It was an expense to do so, of course, but all expenses were warranted where the comfort of Outworlders was concerned. They would be in town for the Olympics. They were heavy spenders. And for each recruit taken, there would be a fee both to Earth and to the local government from the planet sponsoring the Olympics. It paid to keep Outworiders in mind of a particular city as a pleasant place in which to spend Olympics time. San Francisco knew what it was doing.\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\tx249\f1 George, lost in thought, was suddenly aware of a gentle pressure on his shoulder blade and a voice saying, \ldblquote Are you in line here, young man?\rdblquote\f0\par
\fs20\page\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\f3\fs22 The line had moved \f1 up without George\rquote s having noticed the widening \f3 gap. He stepped forward hastily \f0 and \f5 muttered, \ldblquote Sony, \f1 sir.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f3 There was the \f0 touch of two \f3 fingers on the elbow of his jacket \f0 and \f3 he looked about furtively.\par
The \f0 man \f3 behind him nodded cheerfully. He had iron-gray hair, and under his jacket he \f0 wore an old-fashioned sweater that buttoned down in front. He said, \f5\ldblquote I \f1 didn\rquote t mean to sound \f5 sarcastic.\rdblquote\f3\par
\f5\ldblquote No offense.\rdblquote\f3\par
\f1\ldblquote All right, then.\rdblquote  He sounded cozily talkative. \ldblquote I wasn\rquote t sure you might not simply be standing there, entangled with the line, so to speak, only by accident. I thought you might be a\emdash\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote A what?\rdblquote  said George sharply.\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Why, a contestant, of course. You look young.\rdblquote\f0\par
George turned away. He felt neither cozy nor talkative, and bitterly impatient with busybodies.\par
A thought struck him. Had an alarm been sent out for him? Was his description known, or his picture? Was Gray-hair behind him trying to get a good look at his face?\par
\f1 He hadn\rquote t seen any news reports. He craned his neck to see the moving strip of news headlines parading across one section of the city shield, somewhat lackluster against the gray of the cloudy afternoon sky. It was no use. He gave up at once. The headlines would never concern themselves with him. This was Olympics time and the only news worth headlining was the comparative scores of the winners and the trophies won by continents, nations, and cities.\f0\par
It would go on like that for weeks, with scores calculated on a per capita basis and every city finding some way of calculating itself into a position of honor. His own town had once placed third in an Olympics covering Wiring Technician; third in the whole state. There was still a plaque saying so in Town Hall.\par
\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\par
\pard\fi249\sl-124\slmult0\qj\tx249 George hunched his head between his shoulders and shoved his hands in his pocket and decided that made him more noticeable. He relaxed and tried\par
\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx204 to look unconcerned, and felt no safer. He was in the lobby now, and no authoritative hand had yet been laid on his shoulder. He filed into the hall itself and moved as far forward as he could.\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249 It was with an unpleasant shock that he noticed Gray-hair next to him. He looked away quickly and tried reasoning with himself. The man had been nght behind him in line after all.\par
Gray-hair, beyond a brief and tentative smile, paid no attention to him and, besides, the Olympics was about to start. George rose in his seat to see \fs18 if \fs22 he could make out the position assigned to Trevelyan and at the moment that was all his concern.\par
\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249 The hall was moderate in size and shaped in the classical long oval, with the spectators in the two balconies running completely about the rim and the\par
\fs20\page\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx204\fs22 contestants in the linear trough down the center. The machines were set up, the progress boards above each bench were dark, except for the name and contest number of each man. The contestants themselves were on the scene, reading, talking together; one was checking his fingernails minutely. (It \f3 was, of course, considered bad \f0 form for any contestant to pay any \f3 attention to the \f0 problem before him until the instant of the starting signal.)\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\f1 George studied the program sheet he found in the appropriate slot in the arm of his chair and found Trevelyan\rquote s name. His number was twelve and, to George\rquote s chagrin, that was at the wrong end of the hail. He could make out the figure of Contestant Twelve, standing with his hands in his pockets, back to his machine, and staring at the audience as though he were counting the house. George couldn\rquote t make out the face.\f0\par
Still, that was Trev.\par
George sank back in his seat. He wondered if Trev would do well. He hoped, as a matter of conscious duty, that he would, and yet there was something within him that felt rebelliously resentful. George, profession-less, here, watching. Trevelyan, Registered Metallurgist, Nonferrous, there, competing.\par
\f1 George wondered if Trevelyan had competed in his first year. Sometimes men did, if they felt particularly confident\emdash or hurried. It involved a certain risk. However efficient the Educative process, a preliminary year on Earth (\ldblquote oiling the stiff knowledge,\rdblquote  as the expression went) insured a higher score.\f0\par
\f1 If Trevelyan was repeating, maybe he wasn\rquote t doing so well. George felt ashamed that the thought pleased him just a bit.\f0\par
\f1 He looked about. The stands were almost full. This would be a well-attended Olympics, which meant greater strain on the contestants\emdash or greater drive, perhaps, depending on the individual.\f0\par
Why Olympics, he thought suddenly? He had never known. Why was bread called bread?\par
\f1 Once he had asked his father: \ldblquote Why do they call it Olympics, Dad?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 And his father had said: \ldblquote Olympics means competition.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 George had said: \ldblquote Is when Stubby and I fight an Olympics, Dad?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 Platen, Senior, had said: \ldblquote No. Olympics is a special kind of competition and don\rquote t ask silly questions. You\rquote ll know all you have to know when you \f5 get Educated.\rdblquote\f3\par
\f0 George, back in the present, sighed and crowded down into his seat.\par
All you have to know!\par
\f1 Funny that the memory should be so clear now. \ldblquote When you get Edu\f0\-\f1 cated.\rdblquote  No one ever said, \i\ldblquote If \i0 you get Educated.\rdblquote\f0\par
He always had asked silly questions, it seemed to him now. It was as though his mind had some instinctive foreknowledge of its inability to be Educated and had gone about asking questions in order to pick up scraps here and there as best it could.\par
\f1 And at the House they encouraged him to do so because they agreed with his mind\rquote s instinct. It was the only way.\f0\par
\fs20\page\fs22 He sat up suddenly. What the devil was he doing? Falling for that lie? Was it because Trev was there before him, an Educee, competing in the Olympics that he himself was surrendering?\par
He \i\f1 wasn\rquote t \i0\f0 feeble-minded! \i No!\par
\i0\f1 And the shout of denial in his mnd was echoed b5\rquote  the sudden clamor in the audience as everyone got to his feet.\f0\par
\f1 The box seat in the very center of one long side of the oval was filling with an entourage wearing the colors of Novia, and the word \ldblquote Novia\rdblquote  went up above them on the main board.\f0\par
Novia was a Grade A world with a large population and a thoroughly developed civilization, perhaps the best in the Galaxy. It was the kind of world that every Earthman wanted to live in someday; or, failing that, to see \f5 his children live in. (George remembered Trevelyan\rquote s insistence on Novia \f1 as a goal\emdash and there he was competing for it.)\f0\par
\f3 The lights went out in that section of the ceiling above the audience \f0 and so did the wall lights. The central trough, in \f3 which the contestants \f0 waited, became floodlit.\par
Again George tried to make out Trevelyan. Too far.\par
\f1 The clear, polished voice of the announced sounded. \ldblquote Distinguished Novian sponsors. Ladies. Gentlemen. The Olympics competition for Met\f0\-\f1 allurgist, Nonferrous, is about to begin. The contestants are\emdash\rdblquote\f0\par
Carefully and conscientiously, he read off the list in the program. \f3 Names. Home towns. Educative \f1 years. Each name received its cheers, the San Franciscans among them receiving the loudest. When Trevelyan\rquote s name was reached, George surprised himself by shouting and waving madly. The gray-haired man next to him surprised him even more by cheering likewise.\f0\par
\f1 George could not help but stare in astonishment and his neighbor leaned over to say (speaking loudly in order to be heard over the hubbub), \ldblquote No one here from my home town; I\rquote ll root for yours. Someone you know?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 George shrank back. \ldblquote No.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote I noticed you looking in that direction. Would you like to borrow my \f5 glasses?\rdblquote\f3\par
\f1\ldblquote No. Thank you.\rdblquote  (Why didn\rquote t the old fool mind his own business?)\f0\par
The announcer went on with other formal details concerning the serial number of the competition, the method of timing and scoring and so on. Finally, he approached the meat of the matter and the audience grew silent as it listened.\par
\f1\ldblquote Each contestant will be supplied with a bar of nonferrous alloy of unspecified composition. He will be required to sample and assay the bar, reporting all results correctly to four decimals in percent. All will utilize for this purpose a Beeman Microspectrograph, Model FX-2, each of which is, at the moment, not in working order.\rdblquote\f0\par
\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249 There was an appreciative shout from the audience.\par
\f1\ldblquote Each contestant will be required to analyze the fault of his machine and correct it. Tools and spare parts are supplied. The spare part necessary may\f0\par
\fs20\page\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx204\f3\fs22 not be present, in which case it must be \f0 asked for, and time of delivery \f3 thereof will \f0 be \f3 deducted from \f1 final time. Are all contestants ready?\rdblquote\f0\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249 The board above Contestant Five flashed a frantic red signal. Contestant Five ran off the floor and returned a moment later. The audience laughed good-naturedly.\par
\f1\ldblquote Are all contestants ready?\rdblquote\f0\par
The boards remained blank.\par
\f1\ldblquote Any questions?\rdblquote\f0\par
Still blank.\par
\f1\ldblquote You may begin.\rdblquote\f0\par
\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\f1 There was, of course, no way anyone in the audience could tell how any contestant was progressing except for whatever notations went up on the notice board. But then, that didn\rquote t matter. Except for what professional Metallurgists there might be in the audience, none would understand anything about the contest professionally in any case. What was important was who won, who was second, who was third. For those who had bets on the standings (illegal, but unpreventable) that was all-important. Every\f0\-thing else might go hang.\par
George watched as eagerly as the rest, glancing from one contestant to the next, observing how this one had removed the cover from his ml\-crospectrograph with deft strokes of a small instrument; how that one was peering into the face of the thing; how still a third was setting his alloy bar into its holder; and how a fourth adjusted a vernier with such small touches that he seemed momentarily frozen.\par
Trevelyan was as absorbed as the rest. George had no way of telling how he was doing.\par
The notice board over Contestant Seventeen flashed: Focus plate out of adjustment.\par
The audience cheered wildly.\par
Contestant Seventeen might be right and he might, of course, be wrong. If the latter, he would have to correct his diagnosis later and lose time. Or he might never correct his diagnosis and be unable to complete his analysis or, worse still, end with a completely wrong analysis.\par
Never mind. For the moment, the audience cheered.\par
\f1 Other boards lit up. George watched for Board Twelve. That came on finally: \ldblquote Sample holder off-center. New clamp depresser needed.\rdblquote\f0\par
An attendant went running to him with a new part. If Trevelyan was wrong, it would mean useless delay. Nor would the time elapsed in waiting for the part be deducted. George found himself holding his breath.\par
Results were beginning to go up on Board Seventeen, in gleaming letters:\par
\pard\fi-249\li249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249 aluminum, 41.2649; magnesium, 22.1914; copper, 10.1001. Here and there, other boards began sprouting figures.\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249 The audience was in bedlam.\par
George wondered how the contestants could work in such pandemo\-\par
\fs20\page\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx204\f3\fs22 nium, then wondered if that were not even a \f0 good \f3 thing. A first-class \f0 technician should work best under pressure.\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249 Seventeen rose from his place as his board went red-rimmed to signify completion. Four was only two seconds behind him. Another, then another.\par
\f1 Trevelyan was still working, the n\'eeinor constituents of his alloy bar still unreported. With nearly all contestants standing, Trevelyan finally rose, also. Then, tailing off, Five rose, and received an ironic cheer.\f0\par
\f1 It wasn\rquote t over. Official announcements were naturally delayed. Time elapsed was something, but accuracy was just as important. And not all diagnoses were of equal difficulty. A dozen factors had to be weighed.\f0\par
\f1 Finally, the announcer\rquote s voice sounded, \ldblquote Wmner in the time of four minutes and twelve seconds, diagnosis correct, analysis correct within an average of zero point seven parts per hundred thousand, Contestant Num\f0\-\f1 ber\emdash Seventeen, Henry Anton Schmidt of\emdash\rdblquote\f0\par
What followed was drowned in the screaming. Number Eight was next and \f3 then Four, whose \f0 good time was spoiled by a five part in ten thousand \f3 error in the niobium figure. Twelve was never \f0 mentioned. He was an \f3 also-ran.\par
\f5 George made his way through the crowd to the Contestants\rquote  Door and found a large clot of humanity ahead of him. There would be weeping relatives (joy or sorrow, depending) to greet them, newsmen to \f0 interview \f3 the top-scorers, or the home-town boys, \f0 autograph hounds, publicity seek\-ers and the just plain curious. Girls, too, who might hope to catch the eye of a top-scorer, almost certainly headed for Novia (or perhaps a low-scorer who needed cnosolation and had the \f3 cash to afford \f0\fs18 it).\par
\fs22 George hung back. He saw no one he knew. With San Francisco so far from home, it seemed pretty safe to assume that there would be no relatives to condole with Trev on the spot.\par
Contestants emerged, smiling wealdy, nodding at shouts of approval. Policemen kept the crowds far enough away to allow a lane for walking. \f3 Each high-scorer drew a portion of the crowd off with him, like a magnet pushing through a mound of iron filings.\par
When Trevelyan walked out, scarcely anyone \f0 was \f3 left. (George felt \f0 somehow that he had delayed coming out until just that had come to pass.) \f3 There \f0 was a cigarette in his dour mouth and \f3 he \f0 turned, \f3 eyes downcast, to \f0 walk off.\par
\f3 It \f0 was \f3 the first hint of home George had had in what \f0 was almost \f3 a year and a half and seemed almost a decade \f0 and \f3 a half. He \f0 was \f3 almost \f0 amazed \f5 that Trevelyan hadn\rquote t aged, that he was the same Trev he had last seen.\f3\par
George sprang forward. \i\f1\ldblquote Trev!\rdblquote\f0\par
\i0\f3 Trevelyan spun about, astonished. He stared at George \f0 and \f3 then \f0 his \f5 hand shot out. \ldblquote George Platen, \i\f0 what \i0 the \f5 devil\emdash\rdblquote\f3\par
And almost as soon as the look of \f0 pleasure had crossed his \f3 face, it left. His hand dropped before George had quite the chance of seizing it.\par
\f5\ldblquote Were you in there?\rdblquote  A curt jerk of Trev\rquote  \f0 s head indicated the hail.\par
\fs20\page\f1\fs22\lquote\lquote I was.\rquote\rquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote To see me?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\lquote\lquote Yes.\rquote\rquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Didn\rquote t do so well, did I?\rdblquote  He dropped his cigarette and stepped on it, staring off to the street, where the emerging crowd was slowly eddying and finding its way into skimmers, while new lines were forming for the next scheduled Olympics.\f0\par
\f1 Trevelyan said heavily, \ldblquote So what? It\rquote s only the second time I missed. Novia can go shove after the deal I got today. There are planets that would jump at me fast enough\emdash  But, listen, I \f5 haven\rquote t seen you since Education \f1 Day. Where did you go? Your folks said you were on special assignment but gave no details and you never wrote. You might have written.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote I should have,\rdblquote  said George uneasily. \ldblquote Anyway, I came to say I was sorry the way things went just now.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Don\rquote t be,\rdblquote  said Trevelyan. \ldblquote I told you. Novia can go shove\emdash  At that I should have known. They\rquote ve been saying for weeks that the Beeman machine would be used. All the wise money was on Beeman machines. The damned Education tapes they ran through me were for Henslers and who uses Henslers? The worlds in the Goman Cluster if you want to call them worlds. Wasn\rquote t \i\f0 that \i0\f1 a nice deal they gave me?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Can\rquote t you complain to\emdash\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Don\rquote t be a fool. They\rquote ll tell me my brain was built for Henslers. Go argue. \i\f0 Everything \i0\f1 went wrong. I was the only one who had to send out for a piece of equipment. Notice that?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote They deducted the time for that, though.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Sure, but I lost time wondering if I could be right in my diagnosis when I noticed there wasn\rquote t any clamp depressor in the parts they had supplied. They don\rquote t deduct for that. If it had been a Hensler, I would have \i\f0 known \i0 I was right. How could I match up then? The top winner was a San Francis\-can. So were three of the next four. And the fifth guy was from Los Angeles. They get big-city Educational tapes. The best available. Beeman spectrographs and all. How do I compete with them? I came all the way out \f3 here just to get a chance at a Novian-sponsored \f0 Olympics \f3 in my classifica\-tion \f0 and \f3 I might just as well have stayed home. I knew \f0 it, I tell you, and \f3 that \f1 settles it. Novia isn\rquote t the only chunk of rock in space. Of all the damned\emdash\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 He wasn\rquote t speaking to George. He wasn\rquote t speaking to anyone. He was just uncorked and frothing. George realized that.\f0\par
\f1 George said, \ldblquote If you knew in advance that the Beemans were going to be used, couldn\rquote t you have studied up on them?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote They weren\rquote t in my tapes, I tell you.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote You could have read\emdash books.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 The last word had trailed off under Trevelyan\rquote s suddenly sharp look.\f0\par
\f1 Trevelyan said, \ldblquote Are you trying to make a big laugh out of this? You think this is funny? How do you expect me to read some book and try to memorize enough to match someone else who \i knows.\rdblquote\f0\par
\i0\fs20\page\f1\fs22\ldblquote I thought\emdash\rdblquote\f0\par
\f5\ldblquote You try it. You \f1 try\emdash\rdblquote  Then, \f5 suddenly, \ldblquote What\rquote s your profession, by the way?\rdblquote  He sounded thoroughly hostile.\f3\par
\f5\lquote\lquote Well\emdash\rquote\rquote\f3\par
\f5\ldblquote Come on, now. If you\rquote re \f0 going to \f5 be a wise gu~ with me, let\rquote s see what you\rquote ve done. You\rquote re \f0 still on Earth, \f3 I notice, so \f1 you\rquote re not a Computer \f3 Programmer \f1 and your special assignment can\rquote t be much.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 George said, \ldblquote Listen, Trev. I\rquote m late for an appointment.\rdblquote  He backed away, trying to smile.\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote No, you don\rquote t.\rdblquote  Trevelyan reached out fiercely, catching hold of George\rquote s jacket. \ldblquote You answer my question. Why are you afraid to tell me? What is \f0\fs20 it \f1\fs22 with you? Don\rquote t come here rubbing a bad showing in my face, George, unless you can take it, too. Do you hear me?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 He was shaking George in frenzy and they were struggling and swaying across the floor, when the Voice of Doom struck George\rquote s ear in the form of a policeman\rquote s outraged call.\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote All right now. All right. Break it up.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 George\rquote s heart turned to lead and lurched sickeningly. The policeman would be taking names, asking to see identity cards, and George lacked \f3 one. He would be questioned \f0 and \f3 his lack of profession would show at once; \f0 and before Trevelyan, too, who ached with the pain of the drubbing he had taken and would spread the news back home as a salve for his own hurt feelings.\par
\f1 George couldn\rquote t stand that. He broke away from Trevelyan and made to run, but the policeman\rquote s heavy hand was on his shoulder. \ldblquote Hold on, there. Let\rquote s see your identity card.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 Trevelyan was fumbling for his, saying harshly. \ldblquote I\rquote m Annand Treve\f0\-lyan, Metallurgist, Nonferrous. I was just competing in the Olympics. You better find out \f3 about him, \f1 though, officer.\rdblquote\f0\par
George faced the two, lips dry and throat thickened past speech.\par
\f1 Another voice sounded, quiet, well-mannered. \ldblquote Officer. One moment.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 The policeman stepped back. \ldblquote Yes, sir?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote This young man is my guest. What is the trouble?\rdblquote\f0\par
George looked about in wild surprise. It was \fs20 the \fs22 gray-haired man who had been sitting next to him. Gray-hair nodded benignly at George.\par
Guest? Was he mad?\par
\f1 The policeman was saying, \ldblquote These two were creating a disturbance, sir.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Any criminal charges? Any damages?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote No, sir.\rquote\rquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Well, then, I\rquote ll \f0\fs20 be \f1\fs22 responsible.\rdblquote  He presented a small card to the policeman\rquote s view and the latter stepped back at once.\f0\par
\f1 Trevelyan began indignantly. \ldblquote Hold on, now\emdash\rdblquote  but the policeman \f3 turned on him.\par
\f5\ldblquote All right now. Got \f0 any \f5 charges?\rdblquote\f3\par
\f0\fs20\page\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\tx249\f5\fs22\lquote\lquote I just\emdash\rquote\rquote\f3\par
\f5\ldblquote On your way. The \f1 rest of you\emdash move on.\rdblquote  A sizable crowd had gathered, which now, reluctantly, unknotted itself and raveled away.\f0\par
\f5 George let himself be led to a skimmer but balked at entering. He said, \ldblquote Thank you, but I\rquote m not your guest.\rdblquote  (Could it be a ridiculous case of mistaken identity?)\f3\par
But Gray-hair smiled \f0 and \f5 said, \ldblquote You weren\rquote t but you are now. \f0 Let \f5 me introduce myself, I\rquote m Ladislas Ingenescu, Registered Historian.\rdblquote\f3\par
\f5\lquote\lquote But\emdash\rquote\rquote\f3\par
\f5\ldblquote Come, you will come to no harm, \i\f0 I \i0\f3 assure you. After all, I only wanted to spare you some trouble with a \f1 policeman.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f5\ldblquote But why?\rdblquote\f3\par
\f5\ldblquote Do you want \f1 a reason? Well, then, say that we\rquote re honorary towns-\f3 mates, you \f0 and \f3 I. We both shouted for the same man, remember, \f0 and \f5 we townspeople must stick together, even if the tie is only honorary. Eh?\rdblquote\f3\par
And George, completely unsure of this man, Ingenescu, \f0 and \f3 of himself as well, found himself inside the skimmer. Before he could make up his mind that he ought to get off again, they were off the ground.\par
He thought confusedly: The man has some status. The \f0 policeman de\-ferred to him.\par
He was almost forgetting that his real purpose here in San \fs20 Francisco was \f3\fs22 not to find Trevelyan but to find some person with enough influence to force \f0 a reappraisal of his own capacity of Education.\par
\f5 It could be that Ingenescu was such a man. And right in George\rquote s lap. Everything could be working out fine\emdash fine. Yet \f0 it sounded hollow in \f3 his \f0 thought. He was uneasy.\par
\pard\sl-238\slmult0\tx249\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\tx249\f3 During the short skimmer-hop, Ingenescu kept up an even flow of small-talk, pointing out the landmarks of the city, reminiscing about past Olympics he had seen. George, who paid just enough attention to make vague sounds during the \f0 pauses, watched the route of flight anxiously.\par
\f3 Would they head for one of the \f0 shield-openings and leave the city \f3 altogether?\par
No, they headed downward, and George sighed his relief softly. He felt safer in the city.\par
The skimmer landed at \f0 the roof-entry of a hotel and, \f3 as he alighted, \f1 Ingenescu said, \ldblquote I hope you\rquote ll eat dinner with me in my room?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f5 George said, \ldblquote Yes,\rdblquote  \f0 and grinned \f3 unaffectedly. He was just \f0 beginning to \f3 realize the gap left within \f0 him \f3 by missing lunch.\par
Ingenescu let George eat in silence. Night closed in \f0 and \f3 the wall lights went on \f0 automatically. (George thought: \f5 I\rquote ve been on my own almost \f0 twenty-four hours.)\par
\f3 And then over the coffee, Ingenescu finally spoke again. He said, \f1\ldblquote You\rquote ve been acting as though \f3 you think \f1 I intend you harm.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f3 George reddened, put down his cup \f0 and tried \f3 to deny it, but the older \f0 man \f3 laughed \f0 and \f3 shook his head.\par
\f0\fs20\page\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\f5\fs22\ldblquote It\rquote s so. I\rquote ve been \f0 watching you closely since I first saw you and I think I \f5 know a great deal about you now.\rdblquote\f3\par
George half rose in horror.\par
\f5 Ingenescu said, \ldblquote But sit down. I only want to help you.\rdblquote\f3\par
George sat down but his thoughts were in a whirl. If the old \f0 man \f3 knew who he was, why had he not left him to the policeman? On the other hand, why should he volunteer help?\par
\f5 Ingenescu said, \ldblquote You want to know why I should want to help you? Oh, don\rquote t look alarmed. I can\rquote t read minds. It\rquote s just that my \f0 training \f3 enables me to judge the little \f0 reactions that give minds away, you see. Do you under\-\f1 stand that?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f3 George shook his head.\par
\f1 Ingenescu said, \ldblquote Consider my first sight of you. You were waiting in \f3 line to watch an Olympics, \f1 and your micro-reactions didn\rquote t match what you \f3 were doing. The expression of your face was wrong, the action of your hands was wrong. It meant that something, in general, was wrong, \f0 and \f3 the interesting thing was that, whatever it was, it was nothing common, nothing obvious. Perhaps, I thought, it \f0 was something \f3 of which your own conscious mind \f0 was \f3 unaware.\par
\f5\ldblquote I couldn\rquote t help but follow you, sit next to you. I followed you \f0 again \f3 when you left and \f0 eavesdropped \f3 on the conversation between your friend \f0 and \f5 yourself. After that, well, you were far too interesting an object of study\emdash I\rquote m sorry if that sounds cold-blooded----for me to allow you to be taken off by a policeman. \emdash Now tell me, what is \f0 it that troubles \f5 you?\rdblquote\f3\par
\f0 George was in an agony of indecision. If \f3 this was a trap, why should it be such an indirect, roundabout one? And he \i\f0 had \i0\f3 to \f0 turn to someone. He had \f3 come to the city to find help \f0 and \f3 here was help \f0 being offered. Perhaps what \f3 was wrong was that it \f0 was \f3 being offered. It came \f0 too \f3 easy.\par
\f0 Ingenescu \f5 said, \ldblquote Of course, what you tell me \f0 as a Social \f3 Scientist is a \f1 privileged communication. Do you know what that means?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f5\lquote\lquote No, sir.\rdblquote\f3\par
\f1\ldblquote It means, it would be dishonorable \f3 for me to repeat what you say to \f0 anyone for any purpose. Moreover no one has the legal right to compel me \f5 to repeat it.\rdblquote\f3\par
\f5 George said, with sudden suspicion, \ldblquote I thought you were a Historian.\rdblquote\f3\par
\f5\lquote\lquote So lam.\rquote\rquote\f3\par
\f5\ldblquote Just now you said you were a Social Scientist.\rdblquote\f3\par
\f0 Ingenescu broke into loud laughter and apologized for \f3 it when he could \f1 talk. \ldblquote I\rquote m sorry, young man, I shouldn\rquote t laugh, and I wasn\rquote t really laughing at you. I was laughing at Earth and its emphasis on physical science, and the practical segments of it at that. I\rquote ll bet you can rattle off every subdivision of construction technology or mechanical engineering \f3 and \f1 yet you\rquote re a blank on social science.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f5\ldblquote Well, then what \i\f0 is \i0 social \f5 science?\rdblquote\f3\par
\f5\ldblquote Social science studies groups of human beings \f0 and \f3 there are many\par
\f0\fs20\page\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx204\fs22 high-specialized branches to it, just as there are to zoology, for instance. For instance, there are Culturists, who study the mechanics of cultures, \f3 their growth, development, \f0 and \f5 decay. Cultures,\rdblquote  he added, forestalling a \f1 question, \ldblquote are all \f3 the aspects of a way of life. For instance, it includes the \f0 way we make our living, the things we enjoy and believe, what we consider \f3 good \f1 and bad and soon. Do you understand?\rdblquote\f0\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\f5\ldblquote I think I do.\rdblquote\f3\par
\f1\ldblquote An Economist\emdash not an Economic Statistician, \f3 now, but an \f0 Econo\-\f1 mist\emdash specialized in the study of the way a culture supplies the bodily needs of its individual members. A Psychologist specializes in the indi\f0\-vidual member of a society and how he is affected by the society. A Futurist specializes in planning \f3 the \f0 future \f3 course of a \f1 society, and a Historian\emdash  \f5 That\rquote s where I come in, now.\rdblquote\f3\par
\f5\lquote\lquote Yes, sir.\rdblquote\f3\par
\f5\ldblquote A Historian specializes in the past development of our own society and of societies with other cultures.\rdblquote\f3\par
\f5 George found himself interested. \ldblquote Was it different in the past?\rdblquote\f3\par
\f5\ldblquote I should say it was. Until a thousand years ago, there was no Education, not what we call Education, at least.\rdblquote\f3\par
\f5 George said, \ldblquote I know. People learned in bits \f0 and \f5 pieces out of books.\rdblquote\f3\par
\f5\ldblquote Why, how do you know this?\rdblquote\f3\par
\f5\ldblquote I\rquote ve heard it said,\rdblquote  George said cautiously. Then, \ldblquote Is there any use in worrying about what\rquote s happened long ago? I mean, it\rquote s all done with, isn\rquote t it?\rdblquote\f3\par
\f1\ldblquote It\rquote s never done with, my boy. The past explains the present. For instance, \f5 why is our Educational system what it is?\rdblquote\f3\par
\f1 George stirred restlessly. The man kept bringing the subject back to that. He said snappishly, \ldblquote Because it\rquote s best.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Ah, but why is it best?\rdblquote  Now you listen to me for one moment and I\rquote ll explain. Then you can tell me if there is any \f5 use in history. Even before interstellar travel was developed\emdash\rdblquote  He broke off at the look of complete \f1 astonishment on George\rquote s face. \ldblquote Well, did you think we always had it?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote I never gave it any thought, sir.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote I\rquote m sure you didn\rquote t. But there was a time, four or five thousand years ago, when mankind was confined to the surface of Earth. Even then, his \f3 culture had grown quite technological \f0 and his numbers had increased to the point where any failure in technology would have meant mass starvation and disease. To maintain the technological level and advance it in the face of an increasing population, more and more technicians and \f3 scientists had \f0 to be trained, and yet, as science advanced, it took longer and longer to train them.\par
\f1\ldblquote As first interplanetary and then interstellar travel was developed, the problem grew more acute. In fact, actual colonization of extra-Solar planets was impossible for about fifteen hundred years because of a lack of properly \f3 trained men.\par
\f0\fs20\page\f1\fs22\ldblquote The turning point came when the mechanics of the storage of knowl\f0\-edge within the brain was worked out. Once that had been done, it became possible to devise Educational tapes that would modify the mechanics in such a way as to place within the mind a body of knowledge ready-made so to speak. But you know about \i that.\par
\i0\f1\ldblquote Once that was done, trained men could be turned out by the thousands and millions, and we could begin what someone has since called the \lquote Filling of the Universe.\rquote  There are now fifteen hundred inhabited planets in the Galaxy and there is no end in sight.\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Do you see all \f3 that is involved? \f1 Earth exports Education tapes for low-specialized professions and that keeps the Galactic culture unified. For instance, the Reading tapes insure a single language for all of us. \emdash Don\rquote t look so surprised, other languages are possible, and in the past were used. Hundreds of them.\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Earth also exports high-specialized professionals and keeps its own population at an endurable level. Since they are shipped out in a balanced sex ratio, they act as self-reproductive units and help increase the popula\f0\-tions on the Outworlds where an increase is needed. Furthermore, tapes and men are paid for in material which we much need and on which our economy depends. \i Now \i0\f1 do you understand why our Education is the best way?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f5\lquote\lquote Yes, sir.\rquote\rquote\f3\par
\f1\ldblquote Does it help you to understand, knowing that without it, interstellar colonization was impossible for fifteen hundred yea~s?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Yes, sir.\rquote\rquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Then you see the uses of history.\rdblquote  The Historian smiled. \ldblquote And now I wonder if you see why I\rquote m interested in you?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 George snapped out of time and space back to reality. Ingenescu, apparently, didn\rquote t talk aimlessly. All \f3 this lecture had \f0 been a device to attack him from a new angle.\par
\f1 He said, once again withdrawn, hesitating, \ldblquote Why?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Social Scientists work with societies and societies are made up of people.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\lquote All right.\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote But people aren\rquote t machines. The professionals in physical science work with machines. There is only a limited amount to know about a machine and the professionals know it all. Furthermore, all machines of a given sort are just about alike so that there is nothing to interest them in any given individual machine. But people, ah\emdash  They are so complex and so different one from another that a Social Scientist never knows all there is to know or even a good part of what there is to know. To understand his own specialty, he must always be ready to study people; particularly unusual Specimens.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Like me,\rdblquote  said George tonelessly.\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote I shouldn\rquote t call you a specimen, I suppose, but you are unusual. \f5 You\rquote re\f3\par
\f0\fs20\page\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx204\f1\fs22 worth studying, and if you will allow me that privilege then, in return, I will help you if you are in trouble and if I can.\rdblquote\f0\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\f1 There were pin wheels whirring in George\rquote s mind. \emdash All this talk about people and colonization made possible by Education. It was as though \f3 caked thought within \f0 him were being broken up and strewn about mer\-cilessly.\par
\f1 He said, \ldblquote Let me think,\rdblquote  and clamped his hands over his ears.\f0\par
\f1 He took them away and said to the Historian, \ldblquote Will you do something for me, sir?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote If I can,\rdblquote  said the Historian amiably.\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote And everything I say in this room is a privileged communication. You said so.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f5\lquote\lquote And I meant it.\rquote\rquote\f3\par
\f1\ldblquote Then get me an interview with an Outworld official, with\emdash with a Novian.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 Ingenescu looked startled. \ldblquote Well, now\emdash\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote You can do it,\rdblquote  said George earnestly. \ldblquote You\rquote re an important official. I saw the policeman\rquote s look when you put that card in front of his eyes. If you refuse, I\emdash I won\rquote t let you study me.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 It sounded a silly threat in George\rquote s own ears, one without force. On Ingenescu, however, it seemed to have a strong effect.\f0\par
\f1 He said, \ldblquote That\rquote s an impossible condition. A Novian in Olympics month\emdash\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote All right, then, get me a Novian on the phone and I\rquote ll make my own arrangements for an interview.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Do you think you can?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote I know I can. Wait and see.\rdblquote\f0\par
Ingenescu stared at George thoughtfully and then reached for the visi\-phone.\par
\f1 George waited, half drunk with his new outlook on the whole problem and the sense of power it brought. It couldn\rquote t miss. It \i couldn\rquote t \i0\f0 miss. He would be a Novian yet. He would leave Earth in triumph despite Antonelli and the whole crew of fools at the House for the (he almost laughed aloud) Feeble-minded.\par
\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249 George watched eagerly as the visiplate lit up. It would open up a window into a room of Novians, a window into a small patch of Novia transplanted to Earth. In twenty-four hours, he had accomplished that much.\par
\f1 There was a burst of laughter as the plate unmisted and sharpened, but for the moment no single head could be seen but rather the fast passing of the shadows of men and women, this way and that. A voice was heard, clear-worded over a background of babble. \ldblquote Ingenescu? He wants me?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f3 Then there he was, \f0 staring out of the plate. A Novian. A \f3 genuine \f0 Novian. (George had not an atom of doubt. There was something completely\par
\fs20\page\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx204\fs22 Outworldly about him. Nothing that could be completely defined, or even momentarily mistaken.)\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249 He was swarthy in complexion with a dark wave of hair combed rigidly back from his forehead. He wore a thin black mustache and a pointed beard, just as dark, that scarcely reached below, the lower limit of his narrow chin, but the rest of his face was so smooth that it looked as though it had been depilated permanently.\par
\f1 He was smiling. \ldblquote Ladislas, this goes too far. We fully expect to be spied on, within reason, during our stay on Earth, but mind reading is out of bounds.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Mind reading, Honorable?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f5\ldblquote Confess! You knew \f1 I was going to call this evening. You knew I was only waiting to finish this drink.\rdblquote  His hand moved up into view and his eye peered through a small glass of a faintly violet liqueur. \ldblquote I can\rquote t offer you one, I\rquote m afraid.\rdblquote\f0\par
\pard\li249\sl-238\slmult0\tx249\f1 George, out of range of Ingenescu\rquote s transmitter could not be seen by the Novian. He was relieved at that. He wanted time to compose himself and he needed it badly. It was as though he were made up exclusively of restless fingers, drumming, drumming\emdash  But he was right. He hadn\rquote t miscalculated. Ingenescu \i\f0 was \i0 important.\par
\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx204 The Novian called him by his first name.\par
\pard\li249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\f1 Good! Things worked well. What George had lost on Antonelli, he would make up, with advantage, on Ingenescu. And someday, when he was on his own at last, and could come back to Earth as powerful a Novian as this one who could negligently joke with Ingenescu\rquote s first name and be addressed as \ldblquote Honorable\rdblquote  in turn\emdash when he came back, he would settle with Antonelli. He had a year and a half to pay back and he\emdash  He all but lost his balance on the brink of the enticing daydream and\f0\par
\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx204 snapped back in sudden anxious realization that he was losing the thread of what was going on.\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\f1 The Novian was saying, \ldblquote\emdash doesn\rquote t hold water. Novia has a civilization as complicated and advanced as Earth\rquote s. We\rquote re not Zeston, after all. It\rquote s ridiculous that we have to come here for individual technicians.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 Ingenescu said soothingly, \ldblquote Only for new models. There is never any certainty that new models will be needed. To buy the Educational tapes would cost you the same price as a thousand technicians and how do you know you would need that many?\rdblquote\f0\par
The Novian \f3 tossed off what \f0 remained of his drink and laughed. (It displeased George, somehow, that a Novian should be this frivolous. He wondered uneasily if perhaps the Novian ought not to have skipped that drink and even the one or two before that.)\par
\f1 The Novian said, \ldblquote That\rquote s typical pious fraud, Ladislas. You know we can make use of all the late models we can get. I collected five Metallurgists this afternoon\emdash\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote I know,\rdblquote  said Ingenescu. \ldblquote I was there.\rdblquote\f0\par
\fs20\page\f1\fs22\ldblquote Watching me! Spying!\rdblquote  cried the Novian. \ldblquote I\rquote ll tell you what it is. The new-model Metallurgists I got differed from the previous model only in knowing the use of Beeman Spectrographs. The tapes couldn\rquote t be modified that much, not that much\rdblquote  (he held up two fingers close together) \ldblquote from last year\rquote s model. You introduce the new models only to \i\f0 make \i0\f1 us buy and spend and come here hat in hand.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote We don\rquote t \i\f0 make \i0\f5 you buy.\rdblquote\f3\par
\f1\ldblquote No, but you sell late-model technicians to Landonum and so we have to keep pace. It\rquote s a merry-go-round you have us on, you pious Earthmen, but watch out, there may be an exit somewhere.\rdblquote  There was a sharp edge to his laugh, and it ended sooner than it should have.\f0\par
\f1 Ingenescu said, \ldblquote In all honesty, I hope there is. Meanwhile, as to the purpose of my call\emdash\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote That\rquote s right, \i\f0 you \i0\f1 called. Oh, well, I\rquote ve said my say and \i\f0 1 \i0\f1 suppose next year there\rquote ll be a new model of Metallurgist anyway for us to spend goods on, probably with a new gimmick for niobium assays and nothing else altered and the next year\emdash  But go on, what is it you want?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote I have a young man here to whom I wish you to speak.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Oh?\rdblquote  The Novian looked not completely pleased with that. \ldblquote Concern\f0\-\f1 ing what?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote I can\rquote t say. He hasn\rquote t told me. For that matter he hasn\rquote t even told me his name and profession.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 The Novian frowned. \ldblquote Then why take up my time?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote He seems quite confident that you will be interested in what he has to say.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote I dare say.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote And,\rdblquote  said Ingenescu, \ldblquote as a favor to me.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 The Novian shrugged. \ldblquote Put him on and tell him to make it short.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 Ingenescu stepped aside and whispered to George, \ldblquote Address him as \lquote Honorable.\rquote\f0\par
George swallowed with difficulty. This was it.\par
\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249 George felt himself going moist with perspiration. The thought had come so recently, yet it was in him now so certainly. The beginnings of it had come when he had spoken to Trevelyan, then everything had fermented and \f3 billowed into shape while Ingenescu had prattled, \f1 and then the Novian\rquote s own remarks had seemed to nail it all into place.\f0\par
\f1 George said, \ldblquote Honorable, I\rquote ve come to show you the exit from the meny-go-round.\rdblquote  Deliberately, he adopted the Novian\rquote s own metaphor.\f0\par
\f1 The Novian stared at him gravely. \ldblquote What merry-go-round?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote You yourself mentioned it, Honorable. The merry-go-round that Novia is on when you come to Earth to\emdash to get technicians.\rdblquote  (He couldn\rquote t keep his teeth from chattering; from excitement, not fear.)\f0\par
\f1 The Novian said, \ldblquote You\rquote re trying to say that you know a way by which we can avoid patronizing Earth\rquote s mental supermarket. Is that it?\rdblquote\f0\par
\fs20\page\f5\fs22\ldblquote Yes, sir. You \f1 can control your own Educational system.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Umm. Without \f5 tapes?\rdblquote\f3\par
\f1\ldblquote Y\emdash yes, Honorable.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 The Novian, without taking his eyes from George, called out, \ldblquote In\f0\-\f1 genescu, get into view.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 The Historian moved to where he could be seen over George\rquote s shoulder.\f0\par
\f1 The Novian said, \ldblquote What is this? I don\rquote t seem to penetrate.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote I assure you solenmly,\rdblquote  said Ingenescu, \ldblquote that whatever this is it is being done on the young man\rquote s own initiative, Honorable. I have not inspired this. I have nothing to do with it.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Well, then, what is the young man to you? Why do you call me on his behalf?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 Ingenescu said, \ldblquote He is an object of study, Honorable. He has value to me and I humor him.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote What kind of value?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote It\rquote s difficult to explain; a matter of my profession.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 The Novian laughed shortly. \ldblquote Well, to each his profession.\rdblquote  He nodded to an invisible person or persons outside plate range. \ldblquote There\rquote s a young man here, a prot\'e9g\'e9 of Ingenescu or some such thing, who will explain to us how to Educate without tapes.\rdblquote  He snapped his fingers, and another glass of pale liqueur appeared in his hand. \ldblquote Well, young man?\rdblquote\f0\par
The faces on the plate were multiple now. Men and women, both, crammed in for a view of George, their faces molded into various shades of amusement and curiosity.\par
\f1 George tried to look disdainful. They were all, in their own ways, Novians as well as the Earthman, \ldblquote studying\rdblquote  him as though he were a bug on a pin. Ingenescu was sitting in a corner, now, watching him owl-eyed.\f0\par
Fools, he thought tensely, one and all. But they would have to under\-stand. He would \i make \i0 them understand.\par
\f1 He said, \ldblquote I was at the Metallurgist Olympics this afternoon.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote You, too?\rdblquote  said the Novian blandly. \ldblquote It seems all Earth was there.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote No, Honorable, but I was. I had a friend who competed and who made out very badly because you were using the Beeman machines. His educa\f0\-\f1 tion had included only the Henslers, apparently an older model. You said the modification involved was slight.\rdblquote  George held up two fingers close together in conscious mimicry of the other\rquote s previous gesture. \ldblquote And my friend had known some time in advance that knowledge of the Beeman machines would be required.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote And what does that signify?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote It was my friend\rquote s lifelong ambition to qualify for Novia. He already knew the Henslers. He had to know the Beemans to qualify and he knew that. To learn about the Beemans would have taken just a few more facts, a bit ~more data, a small amount of practice perhaps. With a life\rquote s ambition nding the scale, he might have managed this\emdash\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote And where would he have obtained a tape for the additional facts and\f0\par
\fs20\page\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx204\f1\fs22 data? Or has Education become a private matter for home study here on Earth?\rdblquote\f0\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249 There was dutiful laughter from the faces in the background.\par
\f1 George said, \ldblquote That\rquote s why he didn\rquote t learn, Honorable. He thought he needed a tape. He wouldn\rquote t even try without one, no matter what the prize. He refused to try without a tape.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Refused, eh? Probably the type of fellow who would refuse to fly without a skimmer.\rdblquote  More laughter and the Novian thawed into a smile and said, \ldblquote The fellow is amusing. Go on. I\rquote ll give you another few moments.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f5 George said tensely, \ldblquote Don\rquote t think this is a joke. Tapes \f0 are \f3 actually bad. \f1 They teach too much; they\rquote re too painless. A man who learns that way doesn\rquote t know how to learn any other way. He\rquote s frozen into whatever position he\rquote s been taped. Now if a person \i weren\rquote t \i0 given tapes but were forced to learn by hand, so to speak, from the start; why, then he\rquote d get the habit of learning, and continue to learn. Isn\rquote t that reasonable? Once he has the habit \f3 well developed he \f0 can be given just a small amount of tape-knowledge, perhaps, to fill in gaps or fix details. Then he can make further progress on his own. You can make Beeman \f3 Metallurgists out of your own \f0 Hensler Metallurgists in that way and \f3 not have to come to \f0 Earth for new \f5 models.\rdblquote\f3\par
\f1 The Novian nodded and sipped at his drink. \ldblquote And where does everyone \f5 get knowledge without tapes? From interstellar vacuum?\rdblquote\f3\par
\f1\ldblquote From books. By studying the instruments \f3 themselves. By \i\f1 thinking.\rdblquote\f0\par
\i0\f1\ldblquote Books? How does one understand books without Education?\rdblquote\f0\par
Books are in words. Words can be understood for the most part. Spe\-\f1 cialized words can be explained by the technicians you already have.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote What about reading? Will you allow reading tapes?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Reading tapes are all right, I suppose, but there\rquote s no reason you can\rquote t learn to read the old way, too. At least in part.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 The Novian said, \ldblquote So that you can develop good habits from the start?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Yes, yes,\rdblquote  George said gleefully. The man was beginning to un\f0\-derstand.\par
\f1\ldblquote And what about mathematics?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote That\rquote s the easiest of all, sir\emdash Honorable. Mathematics is different from other technical subjects. It starts with certain \f3 simple principles and \f1 proceeds by steps. You can start with nothing and leam. It\rquote s practically designed for that. Then, once you know the proper types of mathematics, other technical books \f3 become \f1 quite understandable. Especially if you start with easy ones.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Are there easy books?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Definitely. Even if there weren\rquote t, the technicians you now have can try to write easy books. Some of them might be able to put some of their knowledge into words and symbols.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Good Lord,\rdblquote  said the Novian to the men clustered about him. \ldblquote The \f3 young devil has an answer for \f1 everything.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote I have. I have,\rdblquote  shouted George. \ldblquote Ask me.\rdblquote\f0\par
\fs20\page\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\tx249\f1\fs22\ldblquote Have you \f3 tried \f0 learning \f3 from \f0 books \f3 yourself? Or is this just theory \f1 with you?\rdblquote\f0\par
George turned to look quickly at Ingenescu, but the Historian was passive. \f3 There was no sign of \f0 anything but gentle interest in his face.\par
\f5 George said, \ldblquote I have.\rdblquote\f3\par
\f5\ldblquote And do you find it works?\rdblquote\f3\par
\f5\ldblquote Yes, Honorable,\rdblquote  said George eagerly. \ldblquote Take me with you to Novia. I \f1 can set up a program and direct\emdash\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Wait, I have a few more questions. How long would it take, do you \f3 suppose, for you to become a Metallurgist capable of handling a Beeman machine, supposing you started from nothing \f0 and \f3 did not use Educational \f1 tapes?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f5 George hesitated. \ldblquote Well\emdash years, perhaps.\rdblquote\f3\par
\f1\ldblquote Two years? Five? Ten?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote I can\rquote t say, Honorable.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Well, there\rquote s a vital question to which you have no answer, have you? Shall we say five years? Does that sound reasonable to you?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote I suppose so.\rquote\rquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote All right. We have a technician studying metallurgy according to this method of yours for five years. He\rquote s no good to us during that time, you\rquote ll admit, but he must be fed and \f3 housed \f1 and paid for all that time.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote But\emdash\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Let me finish. Then when he\rquote s done and can use the Beeman, five years have passed. Don\rquote t you suppose we\rquote ll have modified Beemans then which he \i won\rquote t \i0 be able to use?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote But by then he\rquote ll be expert on learning. He could learn the new details necessary in a matter of days.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f5\ldblquote So you say. And suppose \f1 this friend of yours, for instance, had studied up on Beemans on his own and managed to learn it; would he be as expert in its use as a competitor who had learned it off the tapes?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Maybe not\emdash\rdblquote  began George.\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Ah,\rdblquote  said the Novian.\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Wait, let \i\f0 me \i0\f1 finish. Even if he doesn\rquote t know something as well, it\rquote s the ability to learn further that\rquote s important. He may be able to think up things, \f5 new things that no tape-Educated man would. You\rquote ll have a reservoir of onginal thinkers\emdash\rdblquote\f3\par
\f1\ldblquote In your studying,\rdblquote  said the Novian, \ldblquote have you thought up any new things?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote No, but I\rquote m just one man and I \f5 haven\rquote t studied long\emdash\rdblquote\f3\par
\f1\ldblquote Yes. \emdash Well, ladies, gentlemen, have we been sufficiently amused?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Wait,\rdblquote  cried George, in sudden panic. \ldblquote I want to arrange a personal interview. There are things I \f5 can\rquote t explain over the visiphone. There \f1 are details\emdash\rdblquote\f0\par
\f5 The Novian looked past George. \ldblquote Ingenescu! I think I have done you \f1 your favor. Now, really, I have a heavy schedule tomorrow. Be well.\rdblquote\f0\par
The screen went blank.\par
\fs20\page\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\f1\fs22 George\rquote s hands shot out toward the screen, as though in a wild impulse to shake life back into it. He cried out, \f5\ldblquote He didn\rquote t believe me. He didn\rquote t believe me.\rdblquote\f3\par
\f1 Ingenescu said, \ldblquote No, George. Did you really think he would?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 George scarcely heard him. \ldblquote But why not? It\rquote s all true. It\rquote s all so much to his advantage. No risk. I and a few men to work with\emdash  A dozen men training for years would cost less than one technician. \emdash He was drunk. Drunk! He didn\rquote t understand.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 George looked about breathlessly. \ldblquote How do I get to him? I\rquote ve got to. This was wrong. Shouldn\rquote t have used the visiphone. I need time. Face to face. How do I\emdash\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 Ingenescu said, \ldblquote He won\rquote t see you, George. And if he did, he wouldn\rquote t believe you.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote He will, I tell you. When he isn\rquote t drinking. He\emdash\rdblquote  \f3 George turned \f0 squarely toward the Historian and \f5 his eyes widened. \ldblquote Why do you call me George?\rdblquote\f3\par
\f1\ldblquote Isn\rquote t that your name? George Platen?\rdblquote\f0\par
\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\f5\ldblquote You know me?\rdblquote\f3\par
\f1\ldblquote All about you.\rdblquote\f0\par
George was motionless except for the breath pumping his chest wall up and down.\par
\f1 Ingenescu said, \ldblquote I want to help you, George. I told you that. I\rquote ve been studying you and I want to help you.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f5 George screamed, \ldblquote I don\rquote t need help. I\rquote m not feeble-minded. The \f1 whole world is, but I\rquote m not.\rdblquote  He whirled and dashed madly for the door.\f0\par
He flung it open and two policemen roused themselves suddenly from \f3 their guard duty \f0 and seized him.\par
\f5 For all George\rquote s \f0 straining, he could \f3 feel the hypo-spray at the fleshy point just under the corner of his jaw, \f0 and that was it. \f3 The last thing he \f0 remembered was the face of Ingenescu, watching with gentle concern.\par
\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249 George opened his eyes to the whiteness of a ceiling. He remembered what had happened. He remembered it distantly as though it had happened \f3 to \f0 somebody \f3 else. He stared at the ceiling till the whiteness filled his eyes \f0 and \f3 washed his brain clean, leaving room, it seemed, for new thought \f0 and new ways of thinking.\par
\f1 He didn\rquote t know how long he lay there so, listening to the drift of his own thinking.\f0\par
\f1 There was a voice in his ear. \ldblquote Are you \i awake?\rdblquote\f0\par
\i0 And George heard his own moaning for the first time. Had he been moaning? He tried to turn \f3 his head.\par
\f5 The voice said, \ldblquote Are you in pain, George?\rdblquote\f3\par
George whispered, \f1\ldblquote Funny. I was so anxious to leave Earth. I \f5 didn\rquote t \f1 understand.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Do you know where you are?\rdblquote\f0\par
\fs20\page\f5\fs22\ldblquote Back in the\emdash the House.\rdblquote  George managed to turn. The voice be-\f0 longed to Omani.\par
\pard\fi249\sl-124\slmult0\qj\tx249\f1 George said, \ldblquote It\rquote s funny Ididn\rquote t understand.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 Omani smiled gently, \ldblquote Sleep again\emdash\rdblquote\f0\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\f3 George slept.\par
\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249 And woke again. His mind was clear.\par
\f0 Omani sat at \f3 the bedside reading, but he put down the \f0 book as \f5 George\rquote s \f0 eyes opened.\par
\f5 George struggled to a sitting position. He said, \ldblquote Hello.\rdblquote\f3\par
\f1\ldblquote Are \f5 you hungry?\rdblquote\f3\par
\f5\ldblquote You bet.\rdblquote  He stared at \f1 Omani curiously. \ldblquote I was followed when I left, wasn\rquote t I?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 Omani nodded. \ldblquote You were under observation at all times. We were \f3 going to maneuver you to Antonelli \f0 and \f3 let you discharge your aggressions. \f1 We felt that to be the only way you could make progress. Your emotions were clogging your advance.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f5 George said, with a trace of embarrassment, \ldblquote I was all wrong about \f1 him.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote It doesn\rquote t matter now. When you stopped to stare at the Metallurgy notice board at the airport, one of our agents reported back the list of names. You and I had talked about your past sufficiently so that I caught the signifi\f0\-\f5 cance of Trevelyan\rquote s name there. You asked for directions to the Olympics; there was the possibility that \f1 this might result in the kind of crisis we were hoping for; we sent Ladislas Ingenescu to the hall to meet you and take over.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f5\ldblquote He\rquote s an important \f0 man \f5 in the government, isn\rquote t he?\rdblquote\f3\par
\f5\lquote\lquote Yes, he is.\rquote\rquote\f3\par
\f5\ldblquote And you had \f0 him take over. It makes me \f3 sound \f1 important.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote You \i\f0 are \i0\f1 important, George.\rdblquote\f0\par
A thick stew had arrived, steaming, fragrant. \f3 George \f0 grinned wolfishly and pushed his sheets back to free his arms. Omani helped arrange the bed-table. For a while, George ate silently.\par
\f1 Then George said, \ldblquote I woke up here once before just for a short time.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 Omani said, \ldblquote I know. I was here.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Yes, I remember. You know, everything was changed. It was as \f3 though \f1 I was too tired to feel emotion. I wasn\rquote t angry any more. I could just think. It was as though I had been drugged to wipe out emotion.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote You weren\rquote t,\rdblquote  said Omani. \ldblquote Just sedation. You had rested.\rdblquote\f0\par
\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\par
\pard\fi249\sl-124\slmult0\qj\tx249\f1\ldblquote Well, anyway, it was all clear to me, as though I had known it all the time but wouldn\rquote t listen to myself. I thought: What was it I had wanted\f0\par
\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx204\f3 Novia to let me do? I had wanted to go to Novia and \f0 take a batch of \f3 un-Educated youngsters and teach them out of books. \f1 I had wanted to establish a House for the Feeble-minded\emdash like here\emdash and Earth already has them\emdash many of them.\rdblquote\f0\par
\fs20\page\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\f1\fs22 Omani\rquote s white teeth gleamed as he smiled. \ldblquote The Institute of Higher Studies is \f5 the correct name for places like this.\rdblquote\f3\par
\f1\ldblquote Now I see it,\rdblquote  said George, \ldblquote so easily I am amazed at my blindness before. After all, who invents the new instrument models that require new-model technicians? Who \f3 invented the Beeman spectrographs, for \f0 instance? A man \f5 called Beeman, I suppose, but he couldn\rquote t have been \f1 tape-Educated or how could he have made the advance?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f5\ldblquote Exactly.\rdblquote\f3\par
\f1\ldblquote Or who makes Educational tapes? Special tape-making technicians? Then who makes the tapes to train \i\f0 them? \i0 More advanced technicians? Then \f5 who makes the tapes\emdash  You see what I mean. Somewhere there has to be an end. Somewhere there must be men and women with capacity for original thought.\rdblquote\f3\par
\f1\ldblquote Yes, George.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 George leaned back, stared over Omani\rquote s head, and for a moment there was the return of something like restlessness to his eyes.\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote Why wasn\rquote t I told all this at the beginning?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f5\ldblquote Oh, if we could,\rdblquote  said Omani, \ldblquote the trouble it would save us. We can \f0 analyze a mind, George, and say this one will make an adequate architect and that one a good woodworker. We know of no way of detecting the capacity for original, creative thought. It is too subtle a thing. We have some rule-of-thumb methods that mark out individuals who may possibly or \f3 potentially have such a talent.\par
\f1\ldblquote On Reading Day, such individuals are reported. You were, for \f3 in\-stance. Roughly speaking, the number so reported comes to one in ten \f0 thousand. By the time Education Day arrives, \f3 these individuals are checked \f1 again, and nine out of ten of them turn out to have been false alarms. Those who remain are sent to places like this.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 George said, \ldblquote Well, what\rquote s wrong with telling people that one out of\emdash of a hundred thousand will end at places like these? Then it won\rquote t be such a shock to those who do.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote And those who don\rquote t? The ninety-nine thousand nine hundred and ninety-nine that don\rquote t? We can\rquote t have all those people considering them\f0\-selves failures. They aim at the professions and one way or another they all make it. Everyone can place after \f3 his or her name: Registered \f0 something-or-other. In one fashion or \f3 another every individual has his or her place in \f1 society and this is necessary.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote But we?\rdblquote  said George. \ldblquote The one in ten thousand exception?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote You can\rquote t be told. That\rquote s exactly it. It\rquote s the final test. Even after we\rquote ve thinned out the possibilities on Education Day, nine out of ten of those who \f3 come here are not quite the material of creative genius, \f0 and \f5 there\rquote s no way \f0 we can \f3 distinguish those nine from the tenth that we want by \f0 any form of \f5 machinery. The tenth one must tell us himself.\rdblquote\f3\par
\f1\ldblquote How?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f5\ldblquote We bring you here to a House for the Feeble-minded and the man who\f3\par
\f0\fs20\page\pard\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx204\f1\fs22 won\rquote t accept that is the man we want. It\rquote s a method that can be cruel, but it works. It won\rquote t do to say to a man, \lquote You can create. Do so.\rquote  It is much safer to wait for a man to say, \lquote I can create, and I will do so whether you wish itor not.\rquote  There are \f3 ten thousand \f0 men like you, George, who support the \f3 advancing technology of fifteen hundred \f1 worlds. We can\rquote t allow ourselves to miss one recruit to that number or waste our efforts on one member who doesn\rquote t measure up.\rdblquote\f0\par
\pard\fi249\sl-238\slmult0\qj\tx249\f3 George pushed his empty plate out of the way \f0 and lifted a cup of coffee to his lips.\par
\f1\ldblquote What about the people here who don\rquote t\emdash measure up?\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\ldblquote They are taped eventually and become our Social Scientists. Ingenescu is one. I am a Registered Psychologist. We are second echelon, so to speak.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1 George finished his coffee. He said, \ldblquote I still wonder about one thing.\rdblquote\f0\par
\f1\lquote\lquote What is that?\rquote\rquote\f0\par
\f1 George threw aside the sheet and stood up. \ldblquote Why do they call them Olympics?\rdblquote\f0\par
}
 