{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1049\deflangfe1049{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset204\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f1\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}{\f72\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f70\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f73\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f74\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f75\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f76\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f77\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f78\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f82\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial;}{\f80\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f83\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f84\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}
{\f85\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}{\f86\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f87\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f88\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Arial (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs32\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning32\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{
\s2\ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{
\s3\qc \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs26\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}
{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}}{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax156\lsdlockeddef0}{\*\revtbl {Unknown;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid8418489\rsid11485343}
{\*\generator Microsoft Word 11.0.6568;}{\info{\title THE HEAVEN MAKERS}{\subject Science Fiction}{\author Frank Herbert}{\doccomm v2.1}{\operator Nata}{\creatim\yr2007\mo5\dy23\hr22\min53}{\revtim\yr2007\mo5\dy23\hr22\min53}{\version2}{\edmins3}
{\nofpages140}{\nofwords48889}{\nofchars278673}{\*\company Home}{\nofcharsws326909}{\vern24579}}\margl1701\margr850\margt1134\margb1134 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin
\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow1\dgvshow1\jexpand\viewkind4\viewscale200\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\rsidroot11485343 \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere\pgbrdropt32\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s2\qc \li0\ri3389\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin3389\lin0\itap0\pararsid11485343 \b\i\f1\fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\insrsid11485343\charrsid11485343 Frank Herbert
\par }\pard\plain \s1\qc \li0\ri3389\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin3389\lin0\itap0\pararsid11485343 \b\f1\fs32\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning32\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11485343 T}{\insrsid11485343 he
}{\insrsid11485343  H}{\insrsid11485343 eaven}{\insrsid11485343  M}{\insrsid11485343 akers}{\insrsid11485343 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri3389\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin3389\lin0\itap0\pararsid11485343 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11485343 
\par 
\par \page 
\par 
\par \'93Every man is as Heaven made him,\line and sometimes a great deal worse.\'94\line \endash  Miguel de Cervantes
\par 
\par 
\par \page 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\qc \li0\ri3389\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin3389\lin0\itap0\pararsid11485343 \b\f1\fs26\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11485343 1
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri3389\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin3389\lin0\itap0\pararsid11485343 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11485343 
\par      FULL OF FOREBODINGS AND THE GREATEST TENSIONS that an adult Chem had ever experienced, Kelexel the Investigator came down into the storyship where it hid beneath the ocean. He pressed his
 slender craft through the barrier that stood like lines of insect legs in the green murk and debarked on the long gray landing platform.
\par      All around him flickering yellow discs and globes of working craft arrived and departed. It was early daylight topside and from this ship Fraffin the Director was composing a story.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 To be here,}{\insrsid11485343  Kelexel thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Actually to be on Fraffin\rquote s world.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      He felt that he knew this world intimately \endash  all those hours before the pantovive, watching Fraffin\rquote s stories about the place unroll before his eyes. Background study for the investigation it\rquote d been called. But what Chem wouldn
\rquote t have traded places with him then \endash  gladly?
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 To be on Fraffin\rquote s world!}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      That morning topside \endash  he had seen such mornings many times, caught by Fraffin\rquote 
s shooting crews: the torn sky, cloud-pillars of gilded cushions. And the creatures! He could almost hear a priestmother murmuring, her voice firmly hesitant before a Chem posing as a god. Ah, such buttersoft women they were, generous wi
th their barbed kisses.
\par      But those times were gone \endash  except for Fraffin\rquote s reels. The creatures of this world had been herded into new avenues of excitement.
\par      In the pangs of remembering Fraffin\rquote s stories, Kelexel recognized his own ambivalence.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 I must not weaken,}{\insrsid11485343  he thought.
\par      There was an element of grandiose posturing in the thought (hand on breast) and Kelexel permitted an inward chuckle at himself. Fraffin had done that for him. Fraffin had taught many a Chem a great deal about himself.
\par      In spite of the confusion on the landing platform, the Dispatcher noted Kelexel almost immediately and sent a hovering robot questioner before whose single eye Kelexel bowed and said: \'93I am a visitor, Kelexel by name.\'94
\par      He did not have to say he w
as a rich visitor. His craft and his clothing said that for him. The clothing was the quiet forest green of neversoil and cut for comfort: leotards, a simple tunic and an all-purpose cape. It gave his squat, bow-legged form a look of rich dignity, setting
 off the silvery Chem-of-Chem skin, forcing attention onto the big face with its rock like angles and planes, the sunken and penetrating brown eyes.
\par      The craft which he left in a rest slot beneath the traffic lanes for the working crews was a needleship
 which could stitch its way across any void in the Chem universe. Only the wealthiest entrepreneurs and Servants of the Primacy owned such ships. Even Fraffin didn\rquote 
t possess one, preferring (so it was said) to plow his wealth back into the world which had brought him such fame.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Kelexel, a visitor}{\insrsid11485343  \endash  he felt confidence in the cover. The Bureau of Criminal Repression had prepared his role and trappings with care.
\par      \'93Welcome, visitor Kelexel,\'94 the Dispatcher said, his voice amplified through the robot to override the story-ship activity. \'93
Take the flex ramp on your left. Please register with our Greeter at the head of the ramp. May your stay with us relieve boredom.\'94
\par      \'93My gratitude,\'94 Kelexel said.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Ritual, everything was ritual,}{\insrsid11485343  he thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Even here.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      He fitted his bowed legs to the riding clamps. The ramp whisked him across the platform, up through a red hatch, along a blue passageway to a glistening ebony orifice. The orifice expanded to reveal a small room and the Greeter\rquote 
s flashing lights, couch and dangling connections.
\par      Kelexel eyed the robo-couplings, knowing they must be linked to the storyship\rquote s Central Directory. Here was the true moment of test for his cover, the heart of Ship Security.
\par      The tensions boiling in him filled Kelexel with sudden wonder. He felt no fear for his person; under his skin \endash  part of his skin \endash 
 lay the web armor which immunized all Chem from violence. It was improbable that they could harm him. Something approaching the entire Chem civil
ization was required to harm an individual. Such decisions came rarely and then only because of a clear and positive threat to all Chem.
\par      But four previous investigators had come here and returned to report \'93no crime\'94 when all surface evidence pointed to something profoundly wrong in Fraffin\rquote 
s private empire. Most disquieting was the fact that all four had left the Service to start their own story-ships out on the rims.
\par      Kelexel held this knowledge to him now, secure in the Chem }{\i\insrsid11485343 oneness,}{\insrsid11485343  the shared unity that Tiggywaugh\rquote s web gave each Chem with his immortality.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 I\rquote m ready for you, Greeter,}{\insrsid11485343  he thought.
\par      He already knew the Primacy\rquote s suspicions must be correct. Senses trained to respond to the slightest betrayal recorded more than enough here to bring him to full alert. Signs of decadence he\rquote 
d expected. Storyships were outposts and outposts tended that way. But there was a surfeit of other symptoms. Certain of the crew moved with that air of knowledgeable superiority which flashed like a warnin
g light to the police eye. There was a casual richness of garb on even the lowliest menials. There was a furtive something here which oozed from the oneness of the web.
\par      He\rquote d seen inside several of the working craft, noted the silver sheen on handles o
f concealment controls. The creatures of this world had long since passed the stage where Chem could legally reveal themselves on the surface. It was one thing to nudge and herd and manipulate intelligent creatures for the sake of entertainment \endash  
\'93to relieve boredom\'94 \endash  quite another thing to sow the seeds of an awareness that could explode }{\i\insrsid11485343 against}{\insrsid11485343  the Chem.
\par      No matter Fraffin\rquote s fame and stature, he\rquote d taken a wrong turning somewhere. That was obvious. The stupidity of such an action put a sour taste in Kelexel\rquote s mouth. No criminal could escape the Primacy\rquote s endless searching 
\endash  not forever.
\par      Still, this was Fraffin\rquote s storyship \endash  Fraffin who had given the Chem surcease from immortal boredom, given them a world of profound fascination in story after story.
\par      He felt those stories in his memory now, sensed the ringing of old bells, their sound falling, lingering, falling-the parapets of awareness roaring there to willy-nilly purpose. Ahhh, how Fraffin\rquote 
s creatures caught the mind! It was in part their similarity to the Chem, Kelexel felt. They made one disregard their gigantism. They forced one to identify with their dreams and emotions.
\par      Remembering, remembering, Kelexel heard the music of bowstrings, warcries and whimpers, kite-shadowed silences on bloody fields-all Fraffin\rquote s doing. He remembered a fair Gutian female, a slave being marched to Babylon in the time of Cambyses 
\endash  an Egyptian woman taken with her child.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 The spoil of the bow,}{\insrsid11485343 
 Kelexel thought, recalling the sweep of that one story. One lost female, yet how she lingered in his memory. She had been sacrificed before Nin-Girsu who blessed commerce and litigation and was in reality the voice of a Chem Manipulator in Fraffin
\rquote s pay.
\par      But here were names and creatures and events the Chem would never have known were it not for Fraffin. This world, Fraffin\rquote s storyship empire, had become a byword in the Chem universe. It would not be easy 
(nor popular) to topple such a one, but Kelexel could see that it must be done.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 I must destroy you,}{\insrsid11485343  Kelexel thought as he coupled himself to the Greeter. He stared with quiet interest up at the scanners which flowed across him, searching, searching. T
his was normal and to be expected from Ship Security. To be a Chem immortal was to submit to this as a matter of course. There could be no threat to any Chem except from his fellow Chem united \endash 
 and the Chem could be united by false ideas as well as true ones. False assumptions, fantastic plots \endash  only the Primacy was supposed proof against such base maneuvers. Fraffin had to satisfy himself that the visitor wasn\rquote t a competitor
\rquote s spy intending secret harm.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 How little you know of harm,}{\insrsid11485343  Kelexel thought as he felt the Greeter probe him. }{\i\insrsid11485343 I need only my senses and my memory to destroy you.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      He wondered then what specific criminal act would trip up Fraffin. Was he breeding some of his creatures for short stature, selling them as pets? Were his people openl
y fraternizing with their planet-bound giants? Was secret knowledge being fed to the creatures? They did, after all, have crude rockets and satellites. Was theirs an unreported }{\i\insrsid11485343 infectious}{\insrsid11485343 
 intelligence, full of immunes, ready to blast out into the universe and oppose the Chem?
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 It must be one of these,}{\insrsid11485343  Kelexel thought. The signs of secrecy were all here on Fraffin\rquote s world. There was guilty knowledge in the storyship.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Why would Fraffin do such a stupid thing?}{\insrsid11485343  Kelexel wondered. }{\i\insrsid11485343 The criminal!}{\insrsid11485343 
\par \page 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\qc \li0\ri3389\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin3389\lin0\itap0\pararsid11485343 \b\f1\fs26\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11485343 2
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri3389\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin3389\lin0\itap0\pararsid11485343 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11485343 
\par      THE GREETER\rquote S REPORT CAME TO FRAFFIN WHERE HE sat at his pantovive editing the latest rushes on his current story.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 The war, the war, the lovely little war,}{\insrsid11485343  he was thinking.
\par      And oh, how Chem audiences loved the effect of flamelighted nights, the naked panting of these creatures in their mortal struggles. One of their leaders reminded him of Cato \endash 
 the same eternally ancient features, the cynical glaze of inward-drinking eyes. Cato, now \'85 there\rquote d been a grand story.
\par      But the pantovive\rquote s three-dimensional images faded, the tracing light receded before the priority of a message, and there was Ynvic\rquote 
s face staring at him, her bald head glistening under the lights in her surgery, her heavy brows arched in a quizzical frown.
\par      \'93A visitor calling himself Kelexel has arrived,\'94 she said. (And Fraffin, watching the flash of her teeth, the heavy lips, thought: }{\i\insrsid11485343 She\rquote s overdue for rejuvenation.)}{\insrsid11485343  \'93
This Kelexel most likely is the Investigator we\rquote ve been expecting,\'94 she added.
\par      Fraffin straightened, uttered a curse that\rquote d been popular on his world in the time of Hasdrubal: \'93Bal, burn their seed!\'94 Then: \'93How certain are you?\'94
\par      \'93The visitor is a visitor to perfection,\'94 Ynvic said. She shrugged. \'93He is too perfect. Only the Bureau could be that perfect.\'94
\par      Fraffin settled back into his editing chair. She was probably correct. The Investigator\rquote s timing was about right. Out in the Chem universe they didn\rquote 
t have this feeling for the nicety of timing. Time ran at such a crazy speed for most Chem. But association with the creatures of this world imparted a pseudosense of time. Yes, it was probably the Investigator.
\par      He looked up and around at his silver-walled salon-office in the heart of the storyship. This long low place crammed with creative machinery 
and the devices of relaxation usually remained insulated from transient planetary distractions. As a rule, only Ynvic dared disturb him at his work here. She would not do it lightly. Something about this visitor, Kelexel, had alerted her.
\par      Fraffin sighed.
\par      Even through the storyship\rquote s sophisticated barriers and the deeps of ocean in which they hid, he often felt that he could sense the passage of the planet\rquote s sun and moon and that troubles waited for the worst conjunctions to plague him.

\par      Waitin
g behind him on his desk was a report from Lutt, his Master-of-Craft, that new three-man shooting crew, youngsters of promise all, had been out on the surface with shields down letting the natives see them, stirring up a storm of local speculation. Teasin
g the natives was, of course, an ancient diversion with the Chem of this storyship.
\par      But not now.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Why did they choose this particular moment?}{\insrsid11485343  he wondered.
\par      \'93Well throw this Kelexel a sop,\'94 he said. \'93The shooting crew that was out teasing the natives. Dismissal for all of them and for the dispatcher who allowed them to surface without an old hand as guide.\'94
\par      \'93They may talk,\'94 Ynvic said.
\par      \'93They don\rquote t dare,\'94 he said. \'93Anyway, explain what\rquote s happened and send them along with recommendations to one of the new ships. I hate to lose them, but \'85\'94 He shrugged.
\par      \'93Is that all you\rquote re going to do?\'94 Ynvic asked.
\par      Fraffin passed a hand over his eyes, scratched his left brow. Her meaning was clear, but he hated to abandon the lovely little war. H
e stared into the glittering shell of the pantovive where his memory still held the lingering images of violence. If he pulled out his Manipulators, the natives likely would settle their differences across a conference table. They had that tendency more a
nd more of late.
\par      Again, he thought of the problems awaiting him at his desk. There was the memo from Albik, the story-chief, the usual complaint: \'93If you wish me to cover this much story action }{\i\insrsid11485343 simultaneously}{\insrsid11485343 
 then I must have more skimmers and platforms, more shooting crews, more cutting-room operators \'85 more \'85 more \'85 more \'85\'94
\par      Fraffin longed for the good old days when Birstala had been his story-chief. There was a man capable of making his own decisions when the equipment and crews wouldn\rquote t stretch.
 But Birstala had succumbed to the immortal nemesis, boredom. He had his own story-ship now with the seed from this planet and his own world somewhere off beyond the beyond. He had his own problems.
\par      \'93Maybe you should sell out,\'94 Ynvic said.
\par      He glared at her. \'93That\rquote s impossible and you know why!\'94
\par      \'93The right buyer \'85\'94
\par      \'93Ynvic!\'94
\par      She shrugged.
\par      Fraffin pushed himself out of the editing chair, crossed to his desk. Its immersed viewscreen showed the discus galaxies and variable stars of 
the Chem birthworlds. A touch of the controls and this scene vanished to present a view from space looking down on their private little planet, this blue-green world with its patterns of clouds over seas and continents, the sharp flakes of star cosmos bey
ond.
\par      His own features lay there suddenly reflected in the desk\rquote 
s polished surface as though swimming out of the planet: the sensual mouth in a straight line, nostrils flared in his narrow hooked nose, dark eyes brooding under overhanging brows, the hig
h forehead with twin coves of silvery Chem flesh in the short black hair.
\par      Ynvic\rquote s face came through the Central Directory\rquote s message center relays to dance above the desk and stare at him expectantly.
\par      \'93I\rquote ve given my opinion,\'94 she said.
\par      Fraffin looked up at the Shipsurgeon, a bald, roundfaced Chem of the Ceyatril breed \endash 
 old, old even by Chem standards-extravagant with age. A thousand stars such as the sun which whirled this planet in its loop of gravity could have been born and died in the life of Shipsurgeon Ynvic. There were rumors she\rquote 
d been a planet buyer once and even a member of the Larra crew which had probed the other dimensions. She wouldn\rquote t say, naturally, but the story persisted.
\par      \'93I can never sell my world, Ynvic,\'94 he said. \'93You know that.\'94
\par      \'93A Chem is wise to avoid the word never,\'94 she said.
\par      \'93What do our sources say about this Kelexel?\'94 he asked.
\par      \'93That he\rquote s a rich merchant, recently allowed to breed, favored by the Primacy.\'94
\par      \'93And you think he\rquote s the new snooper.\'94
\par      \'93I think it.\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 If}{\insrsid11485343  }{\i\insrsid11485343 Ynvic thinks it, then it\rquote s probably true,}{\insrsid11485343  he thought.
\par      He knew he was stalling, vacillating. He didn\rquote t want to drop the lovely little war and gear the ship to meet this new threat.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Perhaps Ynvic\rquote s right,}{\insrsid11485343  he thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 I\rquote ve been here too long, eaten too much identification with our poor, ignorant natives.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Another snooper from the Bureau came to watch us!}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 And what the man sought could not be hidden long. Ynvic was saying that to him with every word and gesture.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 I should abandon this planet,}{\insrsid11485343  he thought }{\i\insrsid11485343 How did I absorb so much identification with these gross, stupid savages? We don\rquote t even share death in common. They die; we don\rquote t.}{
\insrsid11485343 
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 I\rquote ve been one of their gods!}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 What if this snooper cannot be tempted?}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Damn the Bureau!}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93He\rquote s not going to be an easy one, this Investigator,\'94 Ynvic said. \'93He poses as one of the very rich. If he bids on the ship why not confound them \endash 
 sell out. What could they do? You could plead ignorance; the entire ship would back you.\'94
\par      \'93Dangerous \'85 dangerous,\'94 Fraffin said.
\par      \'93But enough profit to oppose any danger,\'94 she said.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 \'93Any}{\insrsid11485343  danger?\'94
\par      \'93As the parable has it,\'94 Ynvic said, \'93the Gods smile on profit.\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Gods, commerce and bureaucracy,}{\insrsid11485343  Fraffin thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 These endure, even among our poor savages. But I\rquote m trapped here, grown too much like my simple creatures.}{\insrsid11485343 
 He held out his right hand, looked at the palm. }{\i\insrsid11485343 My hand\rquote s in their every heritage. I\rquote m the germ of yesterday resurrecting faces out of Babylon.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93Kelexel has requested an interview with the great Fraffin,\'94 Ynvic said. \'93He\rquote s been \'85\'94
\par      \'93I\rquote ll see him,\'94 Fraffin said. He hid his palm in a clenched fist. \'93Yes. Send him to me.\'94
\par      \'93No!\'94 Ynvic said. \'93Refuse him, let your agents \'85\'94
\par      \'93On what grounds? I\rquote ve seen other rich merchants.\'94
\par      \'93Any grounds. Whim, an artist\rquote s impulse, pressure of work.\'94
\par      \'93I think I shall see him. Is he internally instrumented?\'94
\par      \'93Of course not; they wouldn\rquote t be that simple. But why would you \'85\'94
\par      \'93To feel him out.\'94
\par      \'93You\rquote ve professionals for that job.\'94
\par      \'93But he wants to see me.\'94
\par      \'93Here is real danger. Let him once suspect and hell not bid. He\rquote ll just snoop until he has us all in his noose.\'94
\par      \'93He may not bid anyway. Someone must find what will tempt him.\'94
\par      \'93We }{\i\insrsid11485343 know}{\insrsid11485343  what\rquote ll tempt him! But let him get just the faintest hint that we can interbreed with these savages, the most vague suspicion and we\rquote ve lost him \'85 and ourselves as well.\'94
\par      \'93I\rquote m not a child to be lectured to, Ynvic. I\rquote ll see him.\'94
\par      \'93You\rquote re determined, then?\'94
\par      \'93I am. Where is he?\'94
\par      \'93Out on the surface with a tour crew.\'94
\par      \'93Ahhh. And we\rquote re monitoring, of course. What does he think of our creatures?\'94
\par      \'93The conventional things: they\rquote re so gross, ugly \endash  like caricatures of Chem humanity.\'94
\par      \'93But what do his eyes say?\'94
\par      \'93The females interest him.\'94
\par      \'93Of course they do.\'94
\par      \'93Then you\rquote re going to withdraw from the war drama and set up a story for him?\'94
\par      \'93What else can we do?\'94 his voice revealed frustration and resignation.
\par      \'93What\rquote ll you use, that little group in Delhi?\'94
\par      \'93No, I\rquote m saving that one for an emergency, a }{\i\insrsid11485343 real}{\insrsid11485343  emergency.\'94
\par      \'93The girls\rquote  school in Leeds?\'94
\par      \'93Inappropriate. What do you think, Ynvic \endash  will violence catch his mind?\'94
\par      \'93Definitely. It\rquote s the murder school in Berlin, then, eh?\'94
\par      \'93No, no! I think I have something much better, I\rquote ll discuss it after I\rquote ve seen him. As soon as he returns, have \'85\'94
\par      \'93One moment,\'94 Ynvic said. \'93Not the immune \endash  not that one!\'94
\par      \'93Why not? Compromise him completely.\'94
\par      \'93That\rquote s all this investigator would need! That alone without \'85\'94
\par      \'93The immune can be killed at any time,\'94 Fraffin said.
\par      \'93This Kelexel is not stupid!\'94
\par      I\rquote ll be cautious.\'94
\par      \'93Just remember, old friend,\'94 Ynvic said, \'93that I\rquote m in this as deeply as you. Most of the crew could probably get off with sentences of constructive labor, but I\rquote m the one faked the gene samples we sent the Primacy.\'94
\par      \'93I heard you,\'94 Fraffin said. \'93The word is caution.\'94
\par \page 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\qc \li0\ri3389\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin3389\lin0\itap0\pararsid11485343 \b\f1\fs26\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11485343 3
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri3389\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin3389\lin0\itap0\pararsid11485343 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11485343 
\par      FEELING R
EASONABLY SECURE BEHIND HIS COVER, Kelexel paused just inside the salon-office of the story-ship director. He cast a searching look around the room: such interesting signs of wear on furnishings supposedly resistant to such depletion. The control supports
 of an editing chair showed a polished glitter where Fraffin\rquote s arms had rested.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 He has been here a very long time indeed,}{\insrsid11485343  Kelexel thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 We are right to suspect the worst. A Chem\rquote s attention span cannot be that long \endash 
 unless there are forbidden attractions.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93Visitor Kelexel,\'94 Fraffin said, rising. He indicated a chair facing him across the desk, a simple wooden artifact native to this place. It was a nice touch of the exotic, made a stranger feel uncomfortably ali
en and un-adapted to outpost living. Fraffin himself occupied a conventional floater seat, its body sensors tuned to his personal needs.
\par      Kelexel bowed over the immersed viewer in the desk, used the formal greeting: \'93Director Fraffin, the light of a billion suns could not add one candlepower to thy brillance.\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Oh, Lords of Being,}{\insrsid11485343  Fraffin thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 One of those!}{\insrsid11485343  He smiled, timed his seating to coincide with Kelexel.
\par      \'93I grow dim in the presence of my guest,\'94 Fraffin said. \'93How may I serve such a distinguished person?\'94 And he thought: }{\i\insrsid11485343 Preferably on buttered toast.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      Kelexel swallowed, felt suddenly uneasy. Something about Fraffin bothered him. The director was such a small man \endash  dwarfed by the desk and its instruments. Fraffin\rquote s skin was the mil
k-silver of the Sirihadi Chem, almost matching the room\rquote s walls. It was the man\rquote s stature; that was it. Kelexel had expected someone larger \endash  not as large as the vassals of this planet, certainly \'85 but \'85 larger \'85
 something to go with all the power visible in his features.
\par      \'93You were very kind to grant me your time,\'94 Kelexel said.
\par      Conventionally, Fraffin said: \'93What is time to the Chem?\'94
\par }{\f72\insrsid11485343      But Kelexel didn\rquote t rise to the clich\'e9. The power in Fraffin\rquote s face! It was a famous face, of course \endash  the bl}{\insrsid11485343 
ack hair, the pits of eyes under jutting brows, crag cheeks, outcroppings of nose and jaw. Large reproductions of that face danced on the air wherever a Fraffin story was shown. But the actual flesh and bone man bore an unretouched resemblance to the repr
oductions that Kelexel found disturbing. He had expected more false drama in one or the other. He had expected disparity, a sham somewhere to help him see through these people.
\par      \'93Visitors don\rquote t usually request an interview with the director,\'94 Fraffin said, prodding.
\par      \'93Yes, yes, of course,\'94 Kelexel said. \'93I\rquote ve a \'85\'94 He hesitated, realization coming over him. Everything about Fraffin-timbre of voice, the rich skin color, the total aura of vitality \endash 
 it all spoke of recent rejuvenation. But Fraffin\rquote s cycle was known to the Bureau. He wasn\rquote t due for rejuvenation in this period.
\par      \'93Yes?\'94 Fraffin said.
\par      \'93I\rquote ve \'85 a rather personal request,\'94 Kelexel said.
\par      \'93Not for employment, I hope,\'94 Fraffin said. \'93We\rquote ve so \'85\'94
\par      \'93Nothing for myself,\'94 Kelexel said. \'93My interest level is quite low. Travel seems to satisfy me. However, during my last cycle I was permitted to have a male offspring.\'94
\par      \'93How fortunate for you,\'94 Fraffin said, and he held himself still and watchful, wondering: }{\i\insrsid11485343 Could the man know? Is it possible?}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93Mmmm, yes,\'94 Kelexel said. \'93My offspring, however, requires constant diversion. I\rquote m prepared to pay a very high price for the privilege of placing him with your organization until my contract of responsibility terminates.\'94
\par      Kelexel sat back, waiting. }{\i\insrsid11485343 \'93He will be suspicious of you, naturally,\'94}{\insrsid11485343  the Bureau\rquote s experts had said. }{\i\insrsid11485343 \'93
He will think you seek to place a spy among his crewmen. Be alert to his inner reactions when you make your offer.\'94}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      Watching now, Kelexel saw the Director\rquote s disquiet }{\i\insrsid11485343 Is he fearful?}{\insrsid11485343  Kelexel wondered. }{\i\insrsid11485343 He shouldn\rquote t be fearful \endash  not yet.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93If saddens me,\'94 Fraffin said, \'93But no matter the offer, I must refuse.\'94
\par      Kelexel pursed his lips, then: \'93Would you refuse \'85\'94 And he named a price that astonished Fraffin.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 That\rquote s half as much as I could get for my entire planetary holding,}{\insrsid11485343  Fraffin thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Is it possible Ynvic\rquote s wrong about him? This couldn\rquote 
t be an attempt to put a spy among us. All our crewmen are bound to the compact of shared guilt. No new man can learn what we do until he\rquote s hopelessly compromised. And the Bureau wouldn\rquote t try to buy one of us. They don\rquote 
t dare give me grounds for pleading entrapment.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93Is it not enough?\'94 Kelexel asked. He stroked his chin. The Bureau\rquote s experts had said: }{\i\insrsid11485343 \'93You must ac
t the part of a responsible citizen concerned over his parental contract, perhaps even a bit doting and slightly embarrassed by it.\'94}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93It, uhh, grieves me,\'94 Fraffin said, \'93but there\rquote s no price I\rquote ll accept. Were I to lower the barriers to one rich man\rquote s offspring, my ship soon would become a haven for dilettantes. We\rquote 
re a working crew, chosen only for talent. If your offspring wishes to tram for a post, however, and go through the normal channels \'85\'94
\par      \'93Not even if I doubled the offer?\'94 Kelexel asked.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Is it really the Bureau behind this clown?}{\insrsid11485343  Fraffin wondered. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Or could he be one of the Galaxy Buyers?}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      Fraffin cleared his throat. \'93No price. I }{\i\insrsid11485343 am}{\insrsid11485343  sorry.\'94
\par      \'93Perhaps I\rquote ve offended you?\'94
\par      \'93No. It\rquote s just that my decision is dictated by self-preservation. Work is our answer to the Chem nemesis \'85\'94
\par      \'93Ahh, boredom,\'94 Kelexel murmured.
\par      \'93Precisely,\'94 Fraffin said. \'93Were I to open the doors to any bored person with enough wealth, I\rquote d multiply all our problems. Just today I dismissed four crewmen for actions that\rquote 
d be commonplace were I to hire my people the way you suggest.\'94
\par      \'93Four dismissed?\'94 Kelexel said. \'93Lords of Preservation! What\rquote d they do?\'94
\par      \'93Deliberately lowered their shields, let the natives see them. Enough of that happens by accident without compounding it.\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 How honest and law abiding he tries to appear,}{\insrsid11485343  Kelexel thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 But the core of his crew has been with him too long, and those who leave \endash  even the ones he dismisses \endash  won
\rquote t talk. Something\rquote s at work here which can\rquote t be explained by legality.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93Yes, yes, of course,\'94 Kelexel said, assuming a slightly pompous air. \'93Can\rquote t have fraternizing with the natives out there.\'94 He gestured toward the surface with a thumb. \'93Illegal, naturally. Damnably dangerous.\'94
\par      \'93Raises the immunity level,\'94 Fraffin said.
\par      \'93Must keep your execution squads busy.\'94
\par      Fraffin allowed himself a touch of pride, said: \'93I\rquote ve had to send them after fewer than a million immunes on my planet. I let the natives kill their own.\'94
\par      \'93Only way,\'94 Kelexel agreed. \'93Keep us out of it as much as possible. Classic technique. You\rquote re justly famous for your success at it. Wanted my son to learn under you.\'94
\par      \'93I\rquote m sorry,\'94 Fraffin said.
\par      \'93Answer\rquote s definitely no?\'94
\par      \'93Definitely.\'94
\par      Kelexel shrugged. The Bureau\rquote d prepared him for outright rejection, but he hadn\rquote t quite prepared himself for it. He\rquote d hoped to play out the little game of negotiation. \'93I hope I haven\rquote t offended you,\'94 he said.
\par      \'93Of course not,\'94 Fraffin said. And he thought: }{\i\insrsid11485343 But you\rquote ve warned me.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      He had come around to complete agreement with Ynvic\rquote s suspicions. It was something about this Kelexel\rquote s manner \endash  an inward caution that didn\rquote t fit the outer mask.
\par      \'93Glad of that,\'94 Kelexel said.
\par      \'93I\rquote m always curious about the merchant world\rquote s current price,\'94 Fraffin said. \'93I\rquote m surprised you didn\rquote t bid on my entire holding.\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 You think I\rquote ve made a mistake,}{\insrsid11485343  Kelexel thought }{\i\insrsid11485343 Fool! Criminals never learn.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93My holdings are too diverse, require too much of my attention as it is,\'94 Kelexel said. \'93Naturally, I\rquote d thought of bidding you out and giving all this to my offspring, but I\rquote m quite certain he\rquote 
d make a mess of it, ruin it for everyone. Couldn\rquote t invite that sort of censure on myself, you know.\'94
\par      \'93Perhaps the alternative, then,\'94 Fraffin said. \'93Training, the normal channels of application \'85\'94
\par      Kelexel had been prepared and sharpened for this task over a period long even to the Chem. The Primacy and the Bureau contained men who fed on suspicion and they smarted under continued failure with Fraffin\rquote 
s case. Now, the tiny betrayals in Fraffin\rquote s manner, the patterned evasions and choice of words were summed up in the Investigator\rquote s awareness. There was illegality here, but none of the crimes they\rquote 
d considered and discussed. Somewhere in Fraffin\rquote s private domain there was a dangerous something \endash  odorous and profoundly offensive. What could it be?
\par      \'93If it is permitted,\'94 Kelexel said, \'93I shall be happy to study your operation and make appropriate suggestions to my offspring. He will be delighted, I know, to hear that the great Director Fraffin granted me these few attentions.\'94
\par      And Kelexel thought: }{\i\insrsid11485343 Whatever your crime is, I\rquote ll find it. When I do, you\rquote ll pay, Fraffin; you\rquote ll pay the same as any other malefactor.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93Very well, then,\'94 Fraffin said. He expected Kelexel to leave now, but the man remained, staring offensively across the desk.
\par      \'93One thing,\'94 Kelexel said. \'93I know you achieve quite complex special effects with your creatures. The extreme care, the precision engineering of motives and violence \endash  I just wondered: Isn\rquote t it rather slow work?\'94
\par      The casual ignorance of the question outraged Fraffin, but he sensed a warning in it and remembered Ynvic\rquote s words of caution.
\par      \'93Slow?\'94 he asked. \'93What\rquote s slow to people who deal with infinity?\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Ahh, Fraffin can be goaded,}{\insrsid11485343  Kelexel thought as he read the signs of betrayal. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Good.}{\insrsid11485343  He said: \'93I merely wondered if \'85 I hesitate to suggest it \'85 but does not
 slowness equate with boredom?\'94
\par      Fraffin sniffed. He\rquote 
d thought at first this creature of the Bureau might be interesting, but the fellow was beginning to pall. Fraffin pressed a button beneath his desk, the signal to get the new story under way. The sooner they were rid of this investigator the better. All 
the preparations with the natives would help now. They\rquote d play out their parts with rigorous nicety.
\par      \'93I\rquote ve offended you at last,\'94 Kelexel said, contrition in his voice.
\par      \'93Have my stories bored you?\'94 Fraffin asked. \'93If so, then I\rquote ve offended you.\'94
\par      \'93Never!\'94 Kelexel said. \'93So amusing, humorous. Such diversity.\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Amusing,}{\insrsid11485343  Fraffin thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Humorous!}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      He glanced at the replay monitor in his desk, the strip of story action in progress, shielded and displayed there for only his eyes. His crews already were getting to work. The time was ripe for death. His people knew the urgency.
\par      His mind went down, down-immersed in the desk viewer, forgetting the Investigator, following the petty lives of the natives.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 They are the finite and we the infinite,}{\insrsid11485343  Fraffin thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 
Paradox: the finite provides unlimited entertainment for the infinite. With such poor creatures we insulate ourselves from lives that are endless serial events. Aii, boredom! How you threaten the infinite.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93How pliable your creatures are,\'94 Kelexel said, probing.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Such a bore, this clod,}{\insrsid11485343  Fraffin thought. And he spoke without looking up from the viewer: \'93They\rquote ve strong desires. I saw to that from the beginning. And enormous fears \endash 
 they have enormous fears.\'94
\par      \'93You saw to that, too?\'94 Kelexel asked.
\par      \'93Naturally!\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 How easily he\rquote s goaded to anger,}{\insrsid11485343  Kelexel thought.
\par      \'93What is that you\rquote re watching?\'94 Kelexel asked. \'93Is it something to do with a story? Do I interfere?\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 He begins to take the hook,}{\insrsid11485343  Fraffin thought And he said: \'93I\rquote ve just started a new story, a little gem.\'94
\par      \'93A new story?\'94 Kelexel asked, puzzled. \'93Is the war epic completed then?\'94
\par      \'93I\rquote ve cut off that story,\'94 Fraffin said. \'93It wasn\rquote t going well at all. Besides, wars are beginning to bore me. But personal conflict now \endash  there\rquote s the thing!\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 \'93Personal}{\insrsid11485343  conflict?\'94 Kelexel felt the idea was appalling.
\par      \'93Ah, the intimacies of violence,\'94 Fraffin said. \'93Anyone can find drama in wars and migrations, in the rise and fall of civilizations and of religions \endash 
 but what would you think of a little capsule of a story that focuses on a creature who slays its mate?\'94
\par      Kelexel shook his head. The conversation had taken a turn that left him floundering. The war epic abandoned? A new story? Why? His forebodings returned. Was there a way Fraffin could harm a fellow Chem?
\par      \'93Conflict and fear,\'94 Fraffin said. \'93Ahh, what a wide avenue into the susceptibilities these are.\'94
\par      \'93Yes \'85 yes, indeed,\'94 Kelexel murmured.
\par      \'93I touch a nerve,\'94 Fraffin said. \'93Greed here, a desire there, a whim in this place \endash  and fear. Yes, fear. When the creature\rquote 
s fully prepared, I arouse its fears. Then the whole mechanism performs for me. They make themselves ill! They love! They hate! They cheat! They kill! They die.\'94
\par      Fraffin smiled-clenched teeth in the wide mouth. Kelexel found the expression menacing.
\par      \'93And the most amusing part,\'94 Fraffin said, \'93the most }{\i\insrsid11485343 humorous}{\insrsid11485343  element is that they think they do it of and by themselves.\'94
\par      Kelexel forced an answering smile. Many times he\rquote d laughed at this device in a Fraffin story, but now he found the idea less than amusing. He swallowed, said: \'93But wouldn\rquote t such a story \'85\'94 He groped for the proper expression. 
\'93 \'85 be so \'85 small?\'94
\par      Small, Fraffin thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Such a clown, this Kelexel.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93Is it not an ultimate artistry,\'94 Fraffin asked, \'93if I use a microscopic incident to display immensity? I take the Forever-Now right here.\'94 He lifted a clenched fist, extended it toward Kelexel, opened it to show the palm. \'93
I give you something you don\rquote t have \endash  mortality.\'94
\par      Kelexel found the thought repellant \endash  Fraffin and his grubby personal conflict, a slaying, a petty crime. What a depressing idea. But Fraffin was absorbed once more in the shielded viewer on his desk. What did he see there?
\par      \'93I fear I\rquote ve overstayed my welcome,\'94 Kelexel ventured.
\par      Fraffin jerked his gaze upward. The clod was going. Good. He wouldn\rquote t go far. The net already was being prepared. What a fine, entangling mesh it had!
\par      \'93The freedom of the ship is yours,\'94 Fraffin said.
\par      \'93Forgive me if I\rquote ve taken too much of your time,\'94 Kelexel said, rising.
\par      Fraffin stood, bowed, made the conventional response: \'93What is time to the Chem?\'94
\par      Kelexel murmured the formal reply: \'93Time is our toy.\'94 He turned, strode from the room, thoughts whirling in his mind. There was menace in Fraffin\rquote 
s manner. It had something to do with what he saw in that viewer. A story? How could a story menace a Chem?
\par      Fraffin watched the door seal itself behind Kelexel, sank back into his chair and returned his attention to the viewer. It was night up there on the surface now and the crucial first incident was beginning to unfold.
\par      A native killing its mate. He watched, and struggled to maintain his 
artistic distance. Subject female, appellation Murphey, a figure of staggering scarlet under artificial lights. The fog of all pretense scorched from her features by the unexpected alien who had been her husband. She submitted her life now to formidable a
uguries of which she\rquote d had not the slightest hint. The weirds and shades of her ancestral gods no longer awakened mysteries in her mind. The doomfire faces of superstition had lost their accustomed places.
\par      With an abrupt, violent motion, Fraffin blanked out the viewer, put his hands to his face. Death had come to the creature. The story would go on of itself now, under its own momentum. What a way to trap a Chem!
\par      Fraffin lowered his hands to the smooth cold surface of his desk. But who was trapped?
\par      He felt himself stretched suddenly upon a rack of vision, sensed a frightened multitude within him \endash  the whisperings of his own past without beginning.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 What were we \endash  once?}{\insrsid11485343  he wondered.
\par      There lay the Chem curse: the infinite possessed no antiquities. Memory blurred off back there and one went to the artificial memory of records and reels with all their inaccuracies.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 What was lost there?}{\insrsid11485343  he wondered. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Did we have damned prophets with the sickness of butchery on their tongues, their words 
casting out the salt of fate? What spiced fantasy might we uncover in our lost beginnings? We\rquote ve gods of our own making. How did we make them? Do we spit now upon our own dust as we laugh at my foolish, pliable natives?}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      He could not deflect the sudden swarming of his own past \endash  like hungry beasts glowing in a sky he\rquote 
d beheld only once but which had terrorized him into flight. As quickly as it had come, the fear dissipated. But the experience left him shaken. He stared at one of his own hands. The hand trembled.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 I need distracting entertainment,}{\insrsid11485343  he thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Gods of Preservation! Even boredom\rquote s preferable to this!}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      Fraffin pushed himself away from his desk. How cold its edge felt against his hands! The room had become a foreign place, its devices
 alien, hateful. The soft curves of his massage couch, still shaped to his body, caught his attention on the right and he looked away quickly, repelled by his own body\rquote s outline.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 I}{\insrsid11485343  }{\i\insrsid11485343 must do something rational,}{\insrsid11485343  he thought.
\par      With a determined effort,
 he stood, made his way across the room to the steely convolutions of his pantovive reproducer. He slumped into its padded control seat, tuned the sensors directly to the planet surface. Satellite relays locked onto the machine\rquote 
s probes and he searched out the daylight hemisphere, looked for activity there among his creatures \endash  anything in which to bury his awareness.
\par      Land swam through the viewer stage, a wash of checkerboard outlines in greens and yellows with here and there a chocolate brown. Highways \'85 roads \'85 the glittering amoeba shape of the city \endash 
 he focused down into the streets and abruptly had a small crowd centered on the stage, the quarter-sized figures huddled like dolls at a corner. They were watching a pitchman, a weasel-faced little gian
t in a wrinkled gray suit and greasy hat. The native stood covertly alert behind a flimsy stand tray with transparent cover.
\par      \'93Fleas!\'94 the pitchman said and his voice carried that intimate imperative of the natural confidence man. \'93Yes, that\rquote s what the
y are: fleas. But through an ancient and secret training method I make them perform fantastic acrobatics and marvelous tricks for you. See this pretty girl dance. And there\rquote 
s a little woman who pulls a chariot. And this little girl leaps hurdles! They\rquote ll wrestle and race and romp for you! Step right up. Only one lira to look through the magnifying viewers and see these marvels!\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Do those Fleas know they\rquote re someone\rquote s property?}{\insrsid11485343  Fraffin wondered.
\par \page 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\qc \li0\ri3389\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin3389\lin0\itap0\pararsid11485343 \b\f1\fs26\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11485343 4
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri3389\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin3389\lin0\itap0\pararsid11485343 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11485343 
\par      FOR DR. ANDROCLES THURLOW, IT BEGAN WITH A telephone ringing in the night.
\par      Thurlow\rquote s fumbling hand knocked the receiver to the floor. He spent a moment groping for it in the dark, still half asleep. His mind held trailing bits of a dream in which he relived the vivid moments just before the blast at
 the Lawrence Radiation lab which had injured his eyes. It was a familiar dream that had begun shortly after the accident three months ago, but he felt that it now contained a new significance which he\rquote d have to examine professionally.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Psychologist, heal thyself,}{\insrsid11485343  he thought.
\par      The receiver gave off a tinny voice which helped him locate it. He pressed it to his ear.
\par      \'93Hullo.\'94 His voice carried a rasping sound in a dry mouth.
\par      \'93Andy?\'94
\par      He cleared his throat. \'93Yes?\'94
\par      \'93This is Clint Mossman.\'94
\par      Thurlow sat up, swung his feet out of the bed. The rug felt cold against his soles. The luminous dial of his bedside clock showed 2:18 a.m. The time and the fact that Mossman was the County\rquote s chief criminal deputy sheriff could
 only mean an emergency. Mossman wanted }{\i\insrsid11485343 Dr.}{\insrsid11485343  Thurlow in his capacity as court psychologist.
\par      \'93You there, Andy?\'94
\par      \'93I\rquote m here, Clint. What is it?\'94
\par      \'93I\rquote m afraid I have bad news, Andy. Your old girlfriend\rquote s daddy just killed her mother.\'94
\par      For a moment, the words made no sense. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Old girlfriend.}{\insrsid11485343  He had only one old girlfriend here, but she was now married to someone else.
\par      \'93It\rquote s Joe Murphey, Ruth Hudson\rquote s daddy,\'94 Mossman said.
\par      \'93Oh, God,\'94 Thurlow muttered.
\par      \'93I haven\rquote t much time,\'94 Mossman said. \'93I\rquote m calling from a pay phone across the street from Joe\rquote s office building. He\rquote s holed up in his office and he has a gun. He says he\rquote ll only surrender to you.\'94
\par      Thurlow shook his head. \'93He wants to see me?\'94
\par      \'93We need you down here right away, Andy. I know this is a tough one for you \endash  Ruth and all, but I\rquote ve no choice. I want to prevent a gun battle \'85\'94
\par      \'93I warned you people something like this was going to happen,\'94 Thurlow said. He felt a sudden angry resentment against Mossman, the entire community of Moreno.
\par      \'93I haven\rquote t time to argue with you,\'94 Mossman said. \'93I\rquote ve told him you\rquote re coming. It shouldn\rquote t take more\rquote n twenty minutes to get down here. Hurry it up, will you?\'94
\par      \'93Sure, Clint. Right away.\'94
\par      Thurlow put the receiver back on the phone. He prepared himself for the pain of light, turned on the bedside lamp. His eyes began to water immediately. He blinked rapidly, wondered if he\rquote 
d ever again be able to experience sudden light without pain.
\par      The realization of what Mossman had said began to grow. His mind felt numb. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Ruth! Where is Ruth?}{\insrsid11485343  But that wasn\rquote t his concern any more. That was Nev Hudson\rquote 
s problem. He began dressing, moving softly as he\rquote d learned to do in the nights when his father was still alive.
\par      He took his wallet from the nightstand, found his wristwatch and buckled it onto his left wrist. The glasses, then \endash 
 the special polarizing glasses with their adjustable lenses. His eyes relaxed as soon as he put them on. The light took on a sharply defined yellow cast. H
e looked up, caught a view of himself in the mirror: thin face, the dark glasses behind heavy black rims, black crewcut hair high at the temples, nose long with a slight bulge below the glasses, wide mouth with slightly thicker lower lip, Lincolnesque chi
n, blue-shadowed and with divergent scar-like creases.
\par      A drink was what he needed, but he knew he couldn\rquote t take the time. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Poor, sick Joe Murphey,}{\insrsid11485343  he thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 God what a mess!}{\insrsid11485343 
\par \page 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\qc \li0\ri3389\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin3389\lin0\itap0\pararsid11485343 \b\f1\fs26\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11485343 5
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri3389\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin3389\lin0\itap0\pararsid11485343 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11485343 
\par      THURLOW COUNTED FIVE SHERIFF\rquote S CARS DRAWN UP at an angle to the cur
b in front of the Murphey Building as he pulled to a stop across the street. Spotlights drew patterns of erratic brilliance across the front of the three-story building and the blue and white sign above the entrance: \'93J.H. MURPHEY COMPANY \endash 
 FINE COSMETICS.\'94
\par      The lights reflected bursts of brilliance off the sign. The reflections speared Thurlow\rquote s eyes. He slipped out on the curbside, searched for Mossman. Two furtive huddles of men crouched behind cars across the street.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Has Joe been shooting at them?}{\insrsid11485343  Thurlow wondered.
\par      He knew he was exposed to the dark windows of the building across there, but he felt none of the fragile loneliness he\rquote d experienced in fire fights across the rice paddies of the war. He felt it was impossible that Ruth\rquote s father 
could shoot at him. There\rquote d been only one direction for the man to explode \endash  and he\rquote d already done that. Murphey was used up now, little more than a shell.
\par      One of the officers across the street pushed a bullhorn around the rear of a car, shouted into it: \'93Joe! You, Joe Murphey! Dr. Thurlow\rquote s here. Now you come down out of there and give yourself up. We don\rquote 
t want to have to come in there shooting.\'94
\par      The amplified voice boomed and echoed between the buildings. In spite of the amplifier\rquote s distortions, Thurlow recognized Mossman\rquote s voice.
\par      A second floor window of the Murphey Building opened with a chilling screech. Spotlight circles darted across the stone facing, centered the movement. A man\rquote s voice shouted from darkness behind the window: \'93
No need to get rough, Clint, I see him over there. I\rquote ll be down in seven minutes.\'94 The window banged shut.
\par      Thurlow ducked around his car, ran across to Mossman. The deputy was a bone thin man in a sack-like tan suit and pale cream sombrero. He turned to reveal a narrow face full of craggy shadows from the spotlights\rquote  reflections.
\par      \'93Hi, Andy,\'94 he said. \'93Sorry about this, but you see how it is.\'94
\par      \'93Has he been shooting?\'94 Thurlow asked. He was surprised at the calmness of his own voice. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Professional training,}{\insrsid11485343  he thought. This was a psychotic crisis and he was trained to handle such matters.
\par      \'93No, but he\rquote s got a gun all right,\'94 Mossman said. The deputy\rquote s voice sounded weary and disgusted.
\par      \'93You plan to give him his seven minutes?\'94
\par      \'93Should we?\'94
\par      \'93I think so. I think hell do exactly what he said he\rquote ll do. He\rquote ll come down and give himself up.\'94
\par      \'93Seven minutes and no more then.\'94
\par      \'93Did he say why he wanted to see me?\'94
\par      \'93Something about Ruth and he\rquote s afraid we\rquote ll shoot him if you\rquote re not here.\'94
\par      \'93Is that what he said?\'94
\par      \'93Yeah.\'94
\par      \'93He\rquote s living in a rather involved fantasy, that\rquote s clear,\'94 Thurlow said. \'93Perhaps I should go up and \'85\'94
\par      \'93I\rquote m afraid I can\rquote t risk giving him a hostage.\'94
\par      Thurlow sighed.
\par      \'93You\rquote re here,\'94 Mossman said. That\rquote s what he asked for. I\rquote ll go along with \'85\'94
\par      A radio speaker in the car beside them emitted a clanging sound, then: \'93Car nine.\'94
\par      Mossman leaned into the car, put the microphone to his mouth, thumbed the button: \'93This is car nine, over.\'94
\par      Thurlow looked around, recognized some of the officers sheltered behind the cars. He nodded to the ones who met his gaze, finding it odd how familiar and yet unfamiliar the men appeared, their faces dim in the polarized light which h
is lenses admitted. They were men he saw frequently in the, courthouse, men he knew }{\i\insrsid11485343 by}{\insrsid11485343  first name, but now they exposed a side he\rquote d never before seen.
\par      A metallic crackling came from Mossman\rquote s radio, then: \'93Jack wants to know your ten-oh-eight, car nine. Over.\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Has Ruth heard yet?}{\insrsid11485343  Thurlow wondered. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Who\rquote ll break this to her \'85 and how?}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93Murphey\rquote s still up there in his office,\'94 Mossman said. \'93Dr. Thurlow\rquote s here now and Murphey says he\rquote ll give himself up in seven minutes. We\rquote re going to wait him out. Over.\'94
\par      \'93Okay, car nine. Jack\rquote s on his way with four more men. Sheriff\rquote s still out at the house with the coroner. Sheriff says don\rquote t take any chances. Use gas if you have to. Time is two forty-six; over.\'94
\par      \'93Car nine is seven-oh-five,\'94 Mossman said. \'93Over and out.\'94 He hung the microphone in its rack, turned back to Thurlow. \'93What a sweet mess!\'94 He pushed his cream sombrero back from his forehead.
\par      \'93There\rquote s no doubt he killed Adele?\'94 Thurlow asked.
\par      \'93No doubt.\'94
\par      \'93Where?\'94
\par      \'93At their house.\'94
\par      \'93How?\'94
\par      \'93Knife \endash  that big souvenir thing he was always waving around at barbecues.\'94
\par      Thurlow took a deep breath. It fitted the pattern, of course. A knife was the sickly logical weapon. He forced himself to professional calmness, asked: \'93When?\'94
\par      \'93About midnight near as we can figure. Somebody called an ambulance but they didn\rquote t think to notify us for almost half an hour. By the time we got on it Joe was gone.\'94
\par      \'93So you came down here looking for him?\'94
\par      \'93Something like that.\'94
\par      Thurlow shook his head. As he moved, one of the spotlights shifted and he thought he saw an object hanging in the air outside Murphey\rquote s window. He jerked his attention upward and the object appeared to flow backward up into the dark sky. Thu
rlow removed his glasses, rubbed his eyes. Strange thing \endash  it had looked like a long tube. An aftereffect from the injury to his eyes, he thought He replaced the glasses, returned his attention to Mossman.
\par      \'93What\rquote s Joe doing in there?\'94 Thurlow asked. \'93Any idea?\'94
\par      \'93Calling people on the telephone, bragging about what he\rquote s done. His secretary, Nella Hartnick, had to be taken to the hospital in hysterics.\'94
\par      \'93Has he called \'85 Ruth?\'94
\par      \'93Dunno.\'94
\par      Thurlow thought about Ruth then, really focused on her for the first time since she\rquote 
d sent back his ring with the polite little note (so unlike her, that note) telling of her marriage to Nev Hudson. Thurlow had been in Denver on the fellowship grant that had come to him through the National Science Foundation.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 What a fool I was,}{\insrsid11485343  he thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 That grant wasn\rquote t worth losing Ruth.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      He wondered if he should call her, try to break this news to her as gently as possible. But he knew there was no gentle way to break this news. It had to be done swiftly, 
cruel and sharp. A clean wound that would heal with as small a scar as possible \'85 under the circumstances.
\par      Moreno being the small town it was, he knew Ruth had kept her job after her marriage-night shift psychiatric nurse at the County Hospital. She\rquote d be at the hospital now. A telephone call would be too impersonal, he knew. It\rquote 
d have to be done in person.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 And I\rquote d be irrevocably associated with the tragedy,}{\insrsid11485343  he thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 I}{\insrsid11485343  }{\i\insrsid11485343 don\rquote t want that.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      Thurlow realized then that he was daydreaming, trying to hold onto something of what he and Ruth had known together. He sighed. Let someone else break the news to her. She was someone else\rquote s responsibility now.
\par      An officer on Thurlow\rquote s right said: \'93Think he\rquote s drunk?\'94
\par      \'93Is he ever sober?\'94 Mossman asked.
\par      The first officer asked: \'93You see the body?\'94
\par      \'93No,\'94 Mossman said, \'93but Jack described it when he called me.\'94
\par      \'93Just gi\rquote me one good shot at the sonofabitch,\'94 the first officer muttered.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 And now it starts,}{\insrsid11485343  Thurlow thought.
\par      He turned as a car pulled to a screeching stop across the street. Out of it jumped a short fat man, his pants pulled over pajamas. The man carried a camera with strobe light.
\par      Thurlow whirled away from the light as the man crouched and aimed the camera. The strobe light flared in the canyon of the street \'85 and again.
\par      Expecting the glare, Thurlow had looked up at the sky to avoid the reflected light and its pain on his injured eyes. As the strobe flashed, he saw the strange object once more. It was hanging in the air about ten feet out from Murphey\rquote 
s window. Even after the flare of light, the thing remained visible as a dim shape, almost cloudlike.
\par      Thurlow stared, entranced. This couldn\rquote t be an illusion or aftereffect of the eye injury. The shape was quite
 definite, real. It appeared to be a cylinder about twenty feet long and four or five feet in diameter. A semicircular shelf like a Ubangi lip projected from the end nearest the building. Two figures crouched on the lip. They appeared to be aiming a small
 stand-mounted tube at Murphey\rquote s window. The figures were indistinct in the fog-like outline, but they appeared human \endash  two arms, two legs \endash  although small: perhaps only three feet tall.
\par      Thurlow felt an odd sense of detached excitement at the vision. H
e knew he was seeing something real whose strangeness defied explanation. As he stared, one of the figures turned, looked full at him. Thurlow saw the glow of eyes through the cloud-blurring. The figure nudged its companion. Now, both of them peered down 
at Thurlow \endash  two pairs of glowing eyes.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Is it some form of mirage?}{\insrsid11485343  he wondered.
\par      Thurlow tried to swallow in a dry throat. A mirage could be seen by anyone. Mossman, standing beside him, was staring up at Murphey\rquote s window. The deputy couldn\rquote t help but see that odd cylinder hovering there \endash 
 or the vision of it \endash  but he gave no sign.
\par      The photographer came panting up to them. Thurlow knew the man: Tom Lee from the }{\i\insrsid11485343 Sentinel.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93Is Murphey still in there?\'94 Lee asked.
\par      \'93That\rquote s right,\'94 Mossman said.
\par      \'93Hi, Dr. Thurlow,\'94 Lee said. \'93What you staring at? Is that the window where Murphey\rquote s holed up?\'94
\par      Thurlow grabbed Lee\rquote s shoulder. The two creatures on the cylinder had returned to their tube and were aiming it down toward the crowd of officers. Thurlow pointed toward them, aware of a strong musky smell of cologne from the photographer.

\par      \'93Tom, what the devil is that up there?\'94 Thurlow asked. \'93Get a picture of it.\'94
\par      Lee turned with his camera, looked up. \'93What? Picture of what?\'94
\par      \'93That thing outside Murphey\rquote s window.\'94
\par      \'93What thing?\'94
\par      \'93Don\rquote t you see something hovering just out from that window?\'94
\par      \'93A bunch of gnats, maybe. Lots of \lquote em this year. They always collect like that where there\rquote s fight.\'94
\par      \'93What light?\'94 Thurlow asked.
\par      \'93Huh? Well \'85\'94
\par      Thurlow yanked off his polarized glasses. The cloud-like cylinder disappeared. In its place was a vague, foggy shape with tiny movements in it. He could see the corner of the building through it. He replaced the glasse
s. Again, there was a cylinder with two figures on a lip projecting from it. The figures were now pointing their tube toward the building\rquote s entrance.
\par      \'93There he comes!\'94 It was a shout from their left.
\par      Lee almost knocked Thurlow down pushing past Mossman to aim the camera at the building\rquote s entrance. Officers surged forward.
\par      Thurlow stood momentarily alone as a short, stocky, partly bald man in a blue suit appeared in the spotlight glare at the street doors of the Murphey Building. The man threw
 one hand across his eyes as the spotlights centered on him and the strobe light flared. Thurlow blinked in the glare of light His eyes watered. Deputies engulfed the man at the doors.
\par      Lee darted off to one side, lifted the camera overhead, pointing it down at the milling group. \'93Let me see his face!\'94 Lee called. \'93Open up there a little.\'94
\par      But the officers ignored him.
\par      Again, the strobe flared.
\par      Thurlow had one more glimpse of the captive \endash  small eyes blinking in a round florid face. How curiously intense the eyes \endash  unafraid. They stared out at the psychologist, recognizing him.
\par      \'93Andy!\'94 Murphey shouted. \'93Take care of Ruthy! You hear? Take care of Ruthy!\'94
\par      Murphey became a jerking bald spot hustled along in a crowd of hats. He was pushed into a car off near the corner on the right. Lee still hovered on the outskirts firing his strobe light.
\par      Thurlow took a shuddering breath. There was a sense of charged air around him, a pack smell mingled with exhaust gasses as the cars were sta
rted. Belatedly, he remembered the cylinder at the window, looked up in time to see it lift away from the building, fade into the sky.
\par      There was a nightmare feeling to the vision, the noise, the shouted orders around him.
\par      A deputy paused beside Thurlow, said: \'93Clint says thanks. He says you can talk to Joe in a coupla hours-after the D.A. gets through with him, or in the morning if you\rquote d rather.\'94
\par      Thurlow wet his lips with his tongue, tasted acid in his throat. He said: \'93I \'85 in the morning, I think. I\rquote ll check the probation department for an appointment.\'94
\par      \'93Isn\rquote t going to be much pretrial nonsense about this case,\'94 the deputy said. \'93I\rquote ll tell Clint what you said.\'94 He got into the car beside Thurlow.
\par      Lee came up, the camera now on a strap around his neck. He held a notebook in his left hand, a stub pencil in his right.
\par      \'93Hey, Doc,\'94 he said, \'93is that right what Mossman said? Murphey wouldn\rquote t come out until you got here?\'94
\par      Thurlow nodded, st
epped aside as the patrol car backed out. The question sounded completely inane, something born of the same kind of insanity that left him standing here in the street as cars sped off around the corner in a wake of motor sounds. The smell of un-burned gas
 was sharp and stinging in his nostrils.
\par      Lee scribbled in the notebook.
\par      \'93Weren\rquote t you pretty friendly with Murphey\rquote s daughter once?\'94 Lee asked.
\par      \'93We\rquote re friends,\'94 Thurlow said. The mouth that spoke the words seemed to belong to someone else.
\par      \'93You see the body?\'94 Lee asked.
\par      Thurlow shook his head.
\par      \'93What a sweet, bloody mess,\'94 Lee said.
\par      Thurlow wanted to say: }{\i\insrsid11485343 \'93You\rquote re a sweet, bloody pig!\'94}{\insrsid11485343  but his voice wouldn\rquote t obey him. Adele Murphey \'85 a body. Bodies in crimes of violence tended
 toward an ugly sameness: the sprawl, the red wetness, the dark wounds \'85
 the professional detachment of police as they recorded and measured and questioned. Thurlow could feel his own professional detachment deserting him. This body that Lee mentioned with
 such avid concern for the story, this body was a person Thurlow had known \endash  mother of the woman he\rquote d loved \'85 still loved.
\par      Thurlow admitted this to himself now, remembering Adele Murphey, the calmly amused looks from eyes so like Ruth\rquote s \'85 and the measuring stares that said she wondered what kind of husband he\rquote 
d make for her daughter. But that was dead, too. That had died first.
\par      \'93Doc, what was it you thought you saw up by that window?\'94 Lee asked.
\par      Thurlow looked down at the fat little man, the thick lips, the probing, wise little eyes, and thought what the reaction would be to a description of that }{\i\insrsid11485343 thing}{\insrsid11485343  hovering outside Murphey\rquote 
s window. Involuntarily, Thurlow glanced up at the window. The space was empty now. The night had grown suddenly cold. Thurlow shivered.
\par      \'93Was Murphey looking out?\'94 Lee asked.
\par      The man\rquote s voice carried an irritating country twang that rasped on Thurlow\rquote s nerves.
\par      \'93No,\'94 Thurlow said. \'93I \'85 I guess I just saw a reflection.
\par      \'93I don\rquote t know how you can see anything through those glasses,\'94 Lee said.
\par      \'93You\rquote re right,\'94 Thurlow said. \'93It was the glasses, my eyes \endash  a reflection.\'94
\par      \'93I\rquote ve a lot more questions, Doc,\'94 Lee said. \'93You wanta stop up at the Turk\rquote s Nightery where we can be comfortable. We can go in my car and I\rquote ll bring \'85\'94
\par      \'93No,\'94 Thurlow said. He shook his head, feeling the numbness pass. \'93No. Maybe tomorrow.\'94
\par      \'93Hell, Doc, it }{\i\insrsid11485343 is}{\insrsid11485343  tomorrow.\'94
\par      But Thurlow turned away, ran across the street to his car. His mind had come fully to focus on Murphey\rquote s words: }{\i\insrsid11485343 \'93Take care of Ruthy.\'94}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      Thurlow knew he had to find Ruth, offer any help he could. She was married to someone else, but that didn\rquote t end what had been between them.
\par \page 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\qc \li0\ri3389\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin3389\lin0\itap0\pararsid11485343 \b\f1\fs26\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11485343 6
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri3389\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin3389\lin0\itap0\pararsid11485343 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11485343 
\par      THE AUDIENNCE STIRRED, A SINGLE ORGANISM IN THE anonymous darkness of the storyship\rquote s empatheater.
\par      Kelexel, seated near the center of the giant room, felt that oddly menacing dark movement. They were all around him, the story cadre and off-duty crewmen interested in Fraffin\rquote s new production. They had seen two reels run a
nd rerun a dozen times while the elements were refined. They waited now for another rerun of the opening scene, and still Kelexel sensed that threatening aura in this place. It was personal and direct, something to do with the }{\i\insrsid11485343 story,}
{\insrsid11485343  but he couldn\rquote t define it.
\par      He could smell now the faint bite of ozone from the sensimesh web, that offshoot from Tiggywaugh\rquote 
s discovery, whose invisible field linked the audience to the story projection. His chair felt strange. It was professional equipment with solid arms and keyed flanges for the editing record. Only the vast domed ceiling with its threads of pantovive force
 focusing down, down onto the stage far below him (and the stage itself) \endash  these were familiar, like any normal empatheater.
\par      But the sounds, the clicks of editing keys, professional comments \endash  \'93Shorten that establishment and get to the closeup \'85\'94 \'93Hit the olfactory harder as soon as you have light \'85\'94 \'93Soften that first breeze effect \'85\'94 
\'93Amplify the victim\rquote s opening emotion and cut back immediately \'85\'94
\par      All this continued to be discord.
\par      Kelexel had spent two working days in here, privileged to watch the cadre at its chores. Still, the sounds and voices of the audience remained discord. His previous experience of empatheaters had always involved completed stories and rapt watchers.

\par      Far off to his left in the darkness, a voice said: \'93Roll it.\'94
\par      The pantovive force lines disappeared. Utter blackness filled the room.
\par      Someone cleared his throat. Clearing throats became a message of nervousness that wove out through the dark.
\par      Light came into being at the center of the stage. Kelexel sq
uirmed into a more comfortable position. Always, that same old beginning, he thought. The light was a forlorn, formless thing that resolved slowly into a streetlamp. It illuminated a slope of lawn, a curved length of driveway and in the background the gho
st-gray wall of a native house. The dark windows of primitive glass glistened like strange eyes.
\par      There was a panting noise somewhere in the scene and something thudding with a frenzied rhythm.
\par      An insect chirred.
\par      Kelexel felt the realism of th
e sounds as pantovive circuits reproduced them with all the values of the original. To sit enmeshed in the web, linked to the empathic projectors, was as real as viewing the original raw scene from a vantage point above and to one side. It was, in its own
 way, like the Chem oneness. The smell of dust from wind-stirred dry grass permeated Kelexel\rquote s awareness. A cool finger of breeze touched his face.
\par      Terror crept through Kelexel then. It reached out from the shadowy scene and through the web\rquote s projectors with a billowing insistence. Kelexel had to remind himself that this was story artistry, that it wasn\rquote t real \'85
 for him. He was experiencing another creature\rquote s fear caught and preserved on sensitive recorders.
\par      A running figure, a native woman clad in
 a loose green gown that billowed around her thighs, fled into the focus on the stage. She gasped and panted as she ran. Her bare feet thudded on the lawn and then on the paving of the driveway. Pursuing her came a squat, moon-faced man carrying a sword w
hose blade like a silvery snaketrack glittered in the light of the street-lamp.
\par      Terror radiated from the woman. She gasped: \'93No! Please, dear God, no!\'94
\par      Kelexel held his breath. No matter the number of times he had seen this, the act of violence felt new each time. He was beginning to see what Fraffin might have in this story. The sword was lifted high overhead \'85
\par      \'93Cut!\'94
\par      The web went blank, no emotion, nothing. It was like being dropped off a cliff. The stage darkened.
\par      Kelexel realized then the voice had been Fraffin\rquote s. It had come from far down to the right. A momentary rage at Fraffin\rquote 
s action surged through Kelexel. It required a moment for the Investigator to reorient himself and still he felt frustrated.
\par      Lights came on reveali
ng the rising wedge of seats converging on the disc of stage. Kelexel blinked, stared around him at the story cadre. He could still feel the menace from them and from that empty stage. What was the threat here? he wondered. He trusted his instincts in thi
s: there was danger in this room. But }{\i\insrsid11485343 what}{\insrsid11485343  was it?
\par      The cadre sat around him row on row \endash  trainees and off-duty crewmen at the rear, probationers and specialist observers in the center, the editing crew down near the stage. Taken individually, they appe
ared such ordinary Chem, but Kelexel remembered what he had felt in the dark \endash  the oneness, an organism bent on harming him, }{\i\insrsid11485343 confident}{\insrsid11485343 
 of its ability to harm him. He could sense it in the Chem empathy, the all-one-life they shared.
\par      There was an old stillness to the room now. They were waiting for something. Far down near the stage heads bent together in inaudible conversation.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Am I imagining things?}{\insrsid11485343  Kelexel wondered. }{\i\insrsid11485343 But surely they must suspect me. Why then do they permit me to sit in here and watch them work?}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      The work \endash  that violent death.
\par      Again, Kelexel felt frustration at the way Fraffin had cut off that scene. To have the vision denied him even when he knew how it went \'85 Kelexel shook his head. He felt confused, excited. Once more he
 swept his gaze over the cadre. They were a gaming board of colors in the giant room, the hue of each uniform coded to its wearer\rquote 
s duties-red patches of flitter pilots, the motley orange and black of shooting crewmen, green of story continuity, yellow of 
servicing and repair, purple of acting and white of wardrobe, and here and there the black punctuation marks of Manipulators, subdirectors. Fraffin\rquote s inner circle.
\par      The group near the stage broke apart. Fraffin emerged, climbed up onto the stage and to the very center, the bare circle of image focus. It was a deliberate move which identified him with the action which had occupied that space only moments before.

\par      Kelexel bent forward to study the Director. Fraffin was a gaunt little figure down there
 in his black cloak, a patch of ebony hair above silver skin, the gashed straightedge mouth with its deep upper lip. He was suddenly something from the shadowy marches of a far and perilous realm that no other Chem had ever glimpsed. There was an arrestin
g individuality to him.
\par      The sunken eyes looked up and searched out Kelexel.
\par      A chill went through the Investigator then. He sat back, his thoughts boiling with alarm. It was as though Fraffin had spoken to him, saying: }{\i\insrsid11485343 \'93There\rquote s the foolish Investig
ator! There he is, ensnared in my net, trapped! Safely caught! Oh, certainly caught!\'94}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      Silence gripped the empatheater now like a held breath. The intent faces of the cadre focused on the image stage.
\par      \'93I will tell you once more,\'94 Fraffin said, and his voice caressed the air. \'93Our aim is subtlety.\'94
\par      Again, Fraffin looked up at Kelexel.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Now, he has felt terror,}{\insrsid11485343  Fraffin thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Fear heightens the sex drive. And he has seen the victim\rquote s daughter, a female of the kind to snar
e any Chem-exotic, not too gross, graceful, eyes like strange green jewels. Ah, how the Chem love green. She is sufficiently similar to other non-Chem pleasure creatures that he will sense new physical excitements in her. Ah, hah, Kelexel! You will ask to
 examine a native soon \endash  and we\rquote ll permit it.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93You are not keeping the viewer sufficiently in mind,\'94 Fraffin said. His voice had turned suddenly cold.
\par      A shiver of agitation swept up through the empatheater.
\par      \'93We must not make our viewer feel too deep a terror,\'94 Fraffin said. \'93Only let him know terror is present. Don\rquote t force the experience. Let him enjoy it \endash  amusing violence, humorous death. The viewer must not think }{
\i\insrsid11485343 he is the}{\insrsid11485343  one being manipulated. There is more here than a pattern of intrigue for our own enjoyment.\'94
\par      Kelexel sensed unspoken messages in Fraffin\rquote s words. A definite threat, yes. He felt the play of emotions around him and wondered at them.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 I must get one of these natives to examine intimately and at my leisure,}{\insrsid11485343  Kelexel thought }{\i\insrsid11485343 Perhaps there\rquote s, a clue that only a native can reveal.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      As though this thought were a key to the locked door of temptation, Kelexel found his mind suddenly filled with thoughts about a female from Fraffin\rquote s story. The name, such an exotic sound \endash 
 Ruth. Red-haired Ruth. There was something of the Subicreatures about her and the Subi were famous for the erotic pleasures they gave the Chem. Kelexel remembered a Subi he had owned once. She had seemed to fade so rapidly, though. Mortals had a way of d
oing that when paced by the endless life of a Chem.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Perhaps I could examine this Ruth,}{\insrsid11485343  Kelexel thought }{\i\insrsid11485343 It\rquote d be a simple matter for Fraffin\rquote s men to bring her to me here.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93Subtlety,\'94 Fraffin said. \'93The audience must be maintained in a detached awareness. Think of our story as a form of dance, not real in the way }{\i\insrsid11485343 our}{\insrsid11485343 
 lives are real, but an interesting reflection, a Chem fairy story. By now, you all must know the purpose of our story. See that you hew to that purpose with proper subtlety.\'94
\par      Fraffin drew his black cloak around him with a feeling of amusement at the showmanship of the gesture. He turned his back on the audience, stalked off the stage.
\par      It was a good crew, Fraffin reminded himself. They would play their parts with trained exactit
ude. This amusing little story would accumulate on the reels. It might even be salable as an interlude piece, a demonstration of artistic deftness. But no matter; it would serve its purpose if it did no more than lead Kelexel around \endash 
 a fear here, a desire there \endash  his every move recorded by the shooting crews. Every move.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 He\rquote s as easy to manipulate as the natives,}{\insrsid11485343  Fraffin thought.
\par      He let himself out through the service tube at the rear of the stage, emerged into the blue walls of the drop hall tha
t curved down past the storage bays to his quarters. Fraffin allowed the drop field to catch him and propel him past the seamless projections of hatchways in a gentle blur.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 It\rquote s almost possible to feel sorry for Kelexel,}{\insrsid11485343  he thought.
\par      The man had been so obviously repelled at first confrontation with the idea of single violence, but oh, how he\rquote d lost himself in the native conflict when shown it.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 We identify with individual acts of violence so easily,}{\insrsid11485343  Fraffin thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 One might almost suspect there were real experiences of this kind in our own pasts.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      He felt the reflexive tightening of the armor that was his skin, a sudden turmoil of unfixed memories. Fraffin swallowed, halted the drop at the hatchway outside his salon.
\par      The endlessness of his own personal }{\i\insrsid11485343 story}{\insrsid11485343 
 appalled him suddenly. He felt that he stood on the brink of terrifying discoveries. He sensed monsters of awareness lurking in the shadows of eternity directly before him. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Things}{\insrsid11485343 
 loomed there which he dared not identify.
\par      A pleading rage suffused Fraffin then. He wanted to slam a fist into eternity, to still the hidden voices gibbering at him. He felt himself go still with fear and he thought: }{\i\insrsid11485343 
To be immortal is to require frequent administrations of moral anesthesia.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      It was such an odd thought that it dispelled his fear. He let himself into the silvery warmth of his salon wondering whence that thought had come.
\par \page 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\qc \li0\ri3389\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin3389\lin0\itap0\pararsid11485343 \b\f1\fs26\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11485343 7
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri3389\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin3389\lin0\itap0\pararsid11485343 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11485343 
\par      THURLOW SAT SMOKING HIS PIPE, HUNCHED OVER THE wheel of his parked car. His polarizing glasses lay on t
he seat beside him, and he stared at the evening sky through raindrops luminous on the windshield. His eyes watered and the raindrops blurred like tears. The car was a five-year-old coupe and he knew he needed a new one, but he\rquote 
d fallen into the habit of saving his money to buy a house \'85 when he\rquote 
d thought of marrying Ruth. The habit was difficult to break now, although he knew he clung to it mostly out of perverse hope that the past year might yet be erased from their lives.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Why does she want to see me?}{\insrsid11485343  he wondered. }{\i\insrsid11485343 And why here, where we used to meet? Why such secrecy now?}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      It had been two days since the murder and he found he still couldn\rquote t assemble the events of the period into a coherent whole. Where news stories mentioned his own involvement, those stories read like something written about a stranger \endash 
 their meaning as blurred as the raindrops in front of him now. Thurlow felt his whole world invaded by Joe Murphey\rquote s psychotic ramblings and the violent reactions of the community.
\par      It shocked Thurlow to realize that the community wanted Murphey dead. Public reaction had struck him with and the violence of the storm which had just passed.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Violent storm,}{\insrsid11485343  he thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 A}{\insrsid11485343  violence }{\i\insrsid11485343 storm.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      He looked up at the trees on his left, wondering how long he\rquote d been here. His watch had stopped, unwound. Ruth was late, though. It was her way.
\par      There\rquote d been the storm. Clouds had grown out of a hard gray sky with rain crouched low in them. For a time the eucalyptus grove around him had been filled with frightened bird sounds. A wind had hummed through the high boughs \endash 
 then the rain: big spattering drops.
\par      The sun was back now, low in the west, casting orange light onto the treetops. The leav
es drooped with hanging raindrops. A mist near the ground quested among scaly brown trunks. Insect cries came from the roots and the bunchgrass that grew in open places along the dirt road into the grove.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 What do they remember of their storm?}{\insrsid11485343  Thurlow wondered.
\par      He knew professionally why the community wanted its legal lynching, but to see the same attitude in officials, this was the shocker. Thurlow thought about the delays being placed in his path, the attempts to prevent his own professional exam
ination of Murphey. The sheriff, district attorney George Paret, all the authorities knew by now that Thurlow had predicted the psychotic break which had cost Adele Murphey her life. If they recognized this as a fact, Murphey had to be judged insane and c
ouldn\rquote t be executed.
\par      Paret already had shown his hand by calling in Thurlow\rquote s own department chief, the Moreno State Hospital director of psychiatry, Dr. LeRoi Whelye. Whelye was known throughout the state as a hanging psychiatrist, a man who always fo
und what the prosecution wanted. Right on schedule, Whelye had declared Murphey to be sane and \'93responsible for his acts.\'94
\par      Thurlow looked at his useless wristwatch. It was stopped at 2:14. He knew it must be closer to seven now. It would be dark soon. What was keeping Ruth? Why had she asked him to meet her in their old tryst-big place?
\par      He felt suddenly contaminated by this way of meeting.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Am I ashamed to see her openly now?}{\insrsid11485343  he asked himself.
\par      Thurlow had come directly from the hospital and Whelye\rquote s unsubtle attempts to get him to step aside from this case, to forget for the moment that he was also the county\rquote s court psychologist.
\par      The words had been direct: \'93 \'85 personal involvement \'85 your old girlfriend \'85 her father \'85\'94 The meaning was
 clear, but underneath lay the awareness that Whelye, too, knew about that report on Murphey which rested now in the Probation Department\rquote s files. And that report contradicted Whelye\rquote s public stand.
\par      Whelye had come up just as they were about to go into a Ward Team conference to consider the possible discharge of a patient. Thurlow thought of that conference now, sensing how it encapsulated the chief of psychiatry.
\par      They\rquote d been in the ward office with its smell of oiled floors and disinfectant \endash  the
 Protestant chaplain, a small sandy-haired man whose dark suits always seemed too large and made him appear even smaller; the ward nurse, Mrs. Norman, heavy, gray-haired, busty, a drill sergeant\rquote 
s rocky face with cap always set squarely on her head; Dr. Wh
elye, an impression of excess bulk in a tweed suit, iron gray at the temples, and in patches through his black hair, a sanitary and barber-scraped appearance to his pink cheeks, and a look of calculated reserve in his washed blue eyes.
\par      Lastly, almost something to overlook around the scarred oval table, there\rquote 
d been a patient: a number and a first name, Peter. He was seventeen, mentally limited by lack of the right genes, lack of opportunity, lack of education, lack of proper nutrition. He was a walking }{\i\insrsid11485343 lack,}{\insrsid11485343 
 blonde hair slicked down, veiled blue eyes, a narrow nose and pointed chin, a pursed-up little mouth, as though everything about him had to be shelled up inside and guarded.
\par      Outside the room had been green lawns, sunshine and patients preparing the flower beds for Spring. Inside, Thurlow felt, there had been little more than the patient\rquote s smell of fear with Whelye conducting the interview like a district attorney.

\par      \'93What kind of work are you going to do when you get out?\'94 Whelye asked.
\par      Peter, keeping his eyes on the table, \'93Sell newspapers or shine shoes, something like that.\'94
\par      \'93Can\rquote t make any money like that unless you have a big corner stand and then you\rquote re in big business,\'94 Whelye said.
\par      Watching this, Thurlow wondered why the psychiatrist would suppress ideas instead of trying to draw the boy out. He asked himself then what Whelye would do if he, Thurlow, should stop the proceedings and take the patient\rquote s place to describe 
\'93 \'85 a thing I saw the other night, something like a flying saucer. It was interested in a murderer.\'94
\par      Mrs. Norman had Peter\rquote s social service files on the table in front of her. She leafed through them, obviously not paying much attention to Whelye. The chaplain, Hardwicke, had taken Thurlow\rquote s own psychometry file on Peter, but wasn
\rquote t studying it. He seemed to be interested in the play of a sprinkler visible out the window at his right.
\par      \'93Could you tell us your general attitude today, Peter?\'94 Whelye asked. \'93How do you feel?\'94
\par      \'93Oh, I\rquote m all right.\'94
\par      \'93Are you still working in the sewing room? Seems to me you\rquote d be more interested in that kind of work outside.\'94
\par      \'93Yes, I\rquote m working there. I\rquote ve been working there ever since I came.\'94
\par      \'93How long have you been here?\'94
\par      \'93Pert\rquote  near two years now.\'94
\par      \'93How do you like it here?\'94
\par      \'93Oh, it\rquote s all right But I been wondering when you\rquote re going to let me out \'85 so I can get back home an\rquote  help support my mother.\'94
\par      \'93Well, that\rquote s one thing we have you in here for,\'94 Whelye said, \'93so we can think it over.\'94
\par      \'93Well, that\rquote s what they been telling me for six months, now,\'94 Peter said. \'93Why do I have to stay here? The chaplain\'94 (Peter shot a covert glance at Hardwicke) \'93told me you were going to write my mother to see if she wanted me
 home. An\rquote  if she did want me home, he\rquote d take me down there.\'94
\par      \'93We haven\rquote t heard from your mother yet.\'94
\par      \'93Well, I got a letter from my mother an\rquote  she says she wants me home. The chaplain said if you\rquote d let me go he\rquote d take me home. So I don\rquote t see any reason why I can\rquote t go.\'94
\par      \'93It\rquote s not a simple decision, Peter. It\rquote s not just the chaplain\rquote s decision.\'94
\par      Hardwicke opened the psychometry file, made a pretense of studying it. Thurlow sighed, shook his head.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 What was that thing I saw?}{\insrsid11485343  Thurlow wondered. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Was it real there beside Murphey\rquote s window? Was it illusion?}{\insrsid11485343  The question had been plaguing him for two days.
\par      \'93Well, he said he\rquote d take me,\'94 Peter said.
\par      Whelye stared at Hardwicke, disapproval on his face. \'93Did you say you\rquote d take him down to Mariposa?\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 \'93If}{\insrsid11485343  he were discharged,\'94 Hardwicke said. \'93I said I\rquote d be glad to give him the trip down there.\'94
\par      Whelye faced Peter, said: \'93Well, we have to do some more looking into this matter, generally to find out if your mother wants you and if the chaplain\rquote s schedule will allow him to take you down there. If all these things work out, we\rquote 
ll let you go.\'94
\par      Peter was sitting very still now, no emotion on his face, his gaze intent upon his hands. \'93Thank you.\'94
\par      \'93That\rquote s all, Peter,\'94 Whelye said. \'93You can go now.\'94
\par      Mrs. Norman signaled an attendant waiting at the screened window to the Common Room. The attendant opened the door. Peter got up and hurried out.
\par      Thurlow sat for a moment, the realization growing in him that Peter had taken away what amounted to a promise to be released, but that because of the way he had conducted the conference, Dr. Whelye wasn\rquote 
t aware of this. Whelye would be thinking that all the \'93ifs\'94 involved made this a hypothetical case.
\par      \'93Well, Dr. Whelye,\'94 Thurlow said, \'93you\rquote ve made a definite commitment to this patient to discharge him \endash  promptly.\'94
\par      \'93Oh, no \endash  I didn\rquote t promise I\rquote d discharge him.\'94
\par      \'93Well, the patient certainly understood he\rquote d be home in short order \endash  and the only qualifications are Chaplain Hardwicke\rquote s schedule and confirmation of the mother\rquote s letter.\'94
\par      \'93Call the patient back and well settle this with him right now.\'94 Whelye said. He looked angry.
\par      Mrs. Norman sighed, went to the Common Room door, signaled an attendant. Peter was brought back and returned to his chair. The boy kept his eyes down, shoulders bent, unmoving.
\par      \'93You understand, don\rquote t you, Peter,\'94 Whelye asked, \'93that we haven\rquote t made any definite promise to discharge you? We\rquote re going to look into your home situation and see if everything is all right and if you can get a job. We
\rquote d also like to look into the possibility of you returning to school for a year or so. Perhaps you could get a better job. You understand, don\rquote t you, that we aren\rquote t making any definite commitment?\'94
\par      \'93Yeah, I understand.\'94 Peter looked at Chaplain Hardwicke who refused to meet the boy\rquote s gaze.
\par      \'93What\rquote s this about school?\'94 Thurlow asked.
\par      \'93The boy hasn\rquote t finished high school,\'94 Whelye said. He faced Peter. \'93Wouldn\rquote t you like to go back and finish high school?\'94
\par      \'93Yeah.\'94
\par      \'93Do you like to go to school?\'94 Whelye asked.
\par      \'93Yeah.\'94
\par      \'93Wouldn\rquote t you like to finish your education and get a job where you could pay your own way and save money and get married?\'94
\par      \'93Yeah.\'94
\par      Whelye glanced triumphantly at Thurlow. \'93Anybody got any questions?\'94
\par      Thurlow had slowly been building up in his mind the analogy of a stud poker game. Peter was in the position of a player who didn\rquote t believe anything happening here, nor did he disbelieve anything. He was waiting to see the rest of the cards.

\par      \'93Isn\rquote t it true, Peter,\'94 Thurlow asked, \'93that you\rquote d rather be hungry than on a full stomach?\'94
\par      \'93Yeah.\'94 The boy had turned his attention to Whelye now.
\par      \'93Isn\rquote t it true, Peter,\'94 Thurlow asked, \'93that you\rquote d rather eat a dry crust of bread than have a nice juicy piece of meat on your dinner plate?\'94
\par      \'93Yeah.\'94
\par      \'93That\rquote s all,\'94 Thurlow said.
\par      At Mrs. Norman\rquote s signal, the attendant took Peter once more from the room.
\par      \'93I think when we get to the next patient,\'94 Thurlow said, \'93we should swear him in like they do in court.\'94
\par      Whelye remained silent for a moment. He shuffled his papers, then: \'93I don\rquote t see what you\rquote re driving at.\'94
\par      \'93You reminded me of a district attorney of my acquaintance,\'94 Thurlow said.
\par      \'93Oh?\'94 Whelye\rquote s eyes glazed with anger.
\par      \'93By the way,\'94 Thurlow said, \'93do you believe in flying saucers?\'94
\par      The heads of both Mrs. Norman and Chaplain Hardwicke snapped up. They stared at Thurlow. Whelye, however, drew back, his eyes veiled, watchful.
\par      \'93What is the meaning of that question?\'94 Whelye demanded.
\par      \'93I\rquote d like to know your position,\'94 Thurlow said.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 \'93}{\insrsid11485343 On flying saucers?\'94 There was a cautious disbelief in Whelye\rquote s tone.
\par      \'93Yes.\'94
\par      \'93They\rquote re delusional material,\'94 Whelye said. \'93Utter }{\i\insrsid11485343 nonsense.}{\insrsid11485343  Oh, there could be a few cases of mistaken identity, weather balloons and that sort of thing, but the people who insist they\rquote 
ve seen spaceships, these people are in need of our services.\'94
\par      \'93A sound opinion,\'94 Thurlow said. \'93I\rquote m glad to hear it\'94
\par      Whelye nodded. \'93I don\rquote t care what you think of my methods,\'94 he said, \'93but you\rquote re not going to find my opinions based on delusional material \endash  of }{\i\insrsid11485343 any}{\insrsid11485343  type. Is that clear?\'94
\par      \'93Quite clear,\'94 Thurlow said. He saw that Whelye was convinced the question had carried a subtle intent to discredit.
\par      Whelye got to his feet, glanced at his watch. \'93I fail to see the point in all this, but doubtless you had some idea in mind.\'94 He left the room.
\par      Mrs. Norman took a deep breath, bent a look of sympathy on Thurlow. \'93You like to play with fire, evidently,\'94 she said.
\par      Thurlow stood up, smiled.
\par      Hardwicke, catching Thurlow\rquote s eyes, said: \'93The defense rests.\'94
\par      As the scene passed through his mind, Thurlow shook his head. Again, he glanced at his wristwatch, smiled at himself as the unconscious gesture displayed the stopped hands. The air coming in the car window smelled of wet leaves.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Why did Ruth ask me to meet her here? She\rquote s another man\rquote s wife now. Where is she \endash  so damned late! Could something have happened to her?}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      He looked at his pipe.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Damn pipe\rquote s gone out. Always going out. I smoke matches, not tobacco. Hate to burn myself with this woman again. Poor Ruth \endash  tragedy, tragedy. She was very close to her mother.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      He tried to remember the murdered woman. Adele Murphey was photographs and descriptions in stories now, a reflection from the words of witnesses and police. The Adele Murphey he\rquote d known refused to c
ome out from behind the brutal new images. Her features were beginning to grow dim in the leaf whirl of things that fade. His mind held only the police pictures now \endash  color photos in the file at the sheriff\rquote s office \endash 
 the red hair (so much like the daughter\rquote s) fanned out on an oil-stained driveway.
\par      Her bloodless skin in the photo \endash  he remembered that.
\par      And he remembered the words of the witness, Sarah French, the doctor\rquote s wife from next door, words on a deposition. Through Mrs. French\rquote s words, he could almost visualize that violent scene. Sarah French had heard shouting, a scream. She
\rquote d looked out of her second floor bedroom window onto moon-flooded night just in time to see the murder.
\par      \'93Adele \'85 Mrs. Murphey came running out of her back door. She was wearing a green nightgown \'85 very thin. She was barefooted. I remember thinking how odd: she\rquote 
s barefooted. Then Joe was right behind her. He had that damned Malay kriss. It looked horrible, horrible. I could see his face \'85 the moonlight. He looked like he always looks when he\rquote s angry. He has such a terrible temper!\'94
\par      Sarah\rquote s words \endash  Sarah\rquote s words \'85 Thurlow could almost see that zigzag blade glinting in Joe Murphey\rquote s hand, a vicious, shivering, wavering thing in the mottled shadows. It had taken Jo
e no more than ten steps to catch his wife. Sarah had counted the blows.
\par      \'93I just stood there counting each time he struck her. I don\rquote t know why. I just counted. Seven times. Seven times.\'94
\par      Adele had sprawled onto the concrete, her hair spreading in that uneven splash which the cameras later recorded. Her knees had drawn up into a fetal curve, then straightened.
\par      And all that time, the doctor\rquote s wife had been standing there at the upstairs window, left hand to mouth, her flesh a rigid, mortal concrete.
\par      \'93I couldn\rquote t move. I couldn\rquote t even speak. All I could do was just watch him.\'94
\par      Joe Murphey\rquote s oddly thin-wristed right hand had come up, hurled the kriss in a short arc onto the lawn. Unhurriedly, he had walked around his wife\rquote s body, avoided the spreading patch of red that trailed down the concrete. Presently, he
\rquote d merged with the shadows of trees where the driveway entered the street. Sarah had heard a car motor start Its lights had flashed on. The car had roared away in a gritty scattering of gravel.
\par      Then, and only then, Sarah had found she could move. She\rquote d called an ambulance.
\par      \'93Andy?\'94
\par      The voice brought Thurlow back from a far distance. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Ruth\rquote s voice?}{\insrsid11485343  he wondered. He turned.
\par      She stood at his left just behind the car, a slender woman in a black silk suit that smoothed her full curves. Her red hair, usually worn close around her oval face, was tied in a severe coil at the back of her neck. The hair bound so tightly 
\endash  Thurlow tried to put out of his mind all memory of the mother\rquote s hair spread on the driveway.
\par      Ruth\rquote s green eyes stared at him with a look of hurt expectancy. She had the appearance of a tired elf.
\par      Thurlow opened his door, slipped out to the wet grass beside the road.
\par      \'93I didn\rquote t hear your car,\'94 he said.
\par      \'93I\rquote ve been staying with Sarah, living with her. I walked up from the house. That\rquote s why I\rquote m so late.\'94
\par      He could hear the tears in her voice and wondered at the inanity of their conversation.
\par      \'93Ruth \'85 damn it all! I don\rquote t know what to say.\'94 Without thinking about it, he crossed to her, took her in his arms. He could feel her muscles resisting him. \'93I don\rquote t know what to say.\'94
\par      She pulled out of his embrace. \'93Then \'85 don\rquote t say anything. It\rquote s all been said anyway.\'94 She looked up at his eyes. \'93Aren\rquote t you still wearing your special glasses?\'94
\par      \'93To hell with my glasses. Why wouldn\rquote t you speak to me on the phone? Was that Sarah\rquote s number they gave me at the hospital?\'94 Her words were coming back to him, \'93 \'85 living with her.\'94 What did it mean?
\par      \'93Father said \'85\'94 She bit her lower lip, shook her head. \'93Andy, oh, Andy, he\rquote s insane and they\rquote re going to execute him \'85\'94 She looked up at Thurlow, her lashes wet with tears. \'93Andy, I don\rquote 
t know how to feel about him. I don\rquote t know \'85\'94
\par      Again, he took her in his arms. She came willingly this time. How familiar and right it felt for her to be there. She began to sob gently against his shoulder. Her crying felt like the spent aftermath of sorrow.
\par      \'93Oh, I wish you could take me away from here,\'94 she whispered.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 What was she saying?}{\insrsid11485343  he asked himself. She was no longer Ruth Murphey. She was Mrs. Neville Hudson. He wanted to push her away, start throwing questions at her. But that wouldn\rquote 
t be professional, not the right }{\i\insrsid11485343 psychological}{\insrsid11485343  thing to do. He decided it wasn\rquote t what he wanted to do after all. Still, she was another man\rquote 
s wife. Damn! Damn! Damn! What had happened? The fight. He remembered their fight \endash  the night he\rquote d told her about the fellowship grant. She hadn\rquote t wanted him to take it, to be separated
 for a year. Denver had sounded so far away in her words. }{\i\insrsid11485343 \'93It\rquote s only a year.\'94}{\insrsid11485343  He could hear his own voice saying it. }{\i\insrsid11485343 \'93You think more of your damn career than you do of me!\'94}{
\insrsid11485343  The temper matched her hair.
\par      He\rquote d left on that sour note. His letters had gone into a void \endash  unanswered. She\rquote d been \'93not home\'94 to his telephone calls. And he\rquote d learned he could be angry, too \endash  and hurt. But what had really happened?

\par      Again, she said: \'93I don\rquote t know how to feel about him.\'94
\par      \'93What can I do to help?\'94 It was all he could say, but the words felt inadequate.
\par      She pushed away from him. \'93Anthony Bondelli, the attorney \endash  we\rquote ve hired him. He wants to talk to you. I \'85 I told him about your report on \'85 father \endash  the time he turned in the false fire alarm.\'94 Her face crumpled. \'93
Oh, Andy \endash  why did you go away? I needed you. We needed you.\'94
\par      \'93Ruth \'85 your father wouldn\rquote t take any help from me.\'94
\par      \'93I know. He hated you \'85 because of \'85 what you said. But he still needed you.\'94
\par      \'93Nobody listened to me, Ruth. He was too important a man for \'85\'94
\par      \'93Bondelli thinks you can help with the insanity plea. He asked me to see you, to \'85\'94 She shrugged, pulled a handkerchief from her pocket, wiped her cheeks.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 So that\rquote s it,}{\insrsid11485343  Thurlow thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 She\rquote s making up to me to get my help, buying my help!}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      He turned away to hide his sudden anger and the pain. For a moment, his eyes didn\rquote t focus, then he grew aware (quite slowly, it seemed) of a subtle brownian movement at the edge of the grove. It was like a swarm of gnats,
 but unlike them too. His glasses. Where were his glasses? In the car! The }{\i\insrsid11485343 gnats}{\insrsid11485343 
 dissolved away upward. Their retreat coincided with the lifting of an odd pressure from his senses, as though a sound or something like a sound had been wearing on his nerves, but now was gone.
\par      \'93You will help?\'94 Ruth asked.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Was that the same sort of thing I saw at Murphey\rquote s window?}{\insrsid11485343  Thurlow asked himself. }{\i\insrsid11485343 What is it?}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      Ruth took a step nearer, looked up at his profile. \'93Bondelli thought \endash  because of us \endash  you might \'85 hesitate.\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 The damned pleading in her voice!}{\insrsid11485343  His mind replayed her question. He said: \'93Yes, I\rquote ll help any way I can.\'94
\par      \'93That man \'85 in the jail is just a shell,\'94 she said. Her voice was low, flat, almost without expression. He looked down at her, seeing how her features drew inward as she spoke. \'93He\rquote 
s not my father. He just looks like my father. My father\rquote s dead. He\rquote s been dead \'85 for a long time. We didn\rquote t realize it \'85 that\rquote s all.\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 God! How pitiful she looked!}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93I\rquote ll do everything I can,\'94 he said, \'93but \'85\'94
\par      \'93I know there isn\rquote t much hope,\'94 she said. \'93I know how they feel \endash  the people. It was my mother this man killed.\'94
\par      \'93People sense he\rquote s insane,\'94 Thurlow said, his voice unconsciously taking a pedantic tone. \'93They know it from the way he talks \endash  from what he did. Insanity is, unfortunately, a communicable disease. He\rquote 
s aroused a counter-insanity. He\rquote s an irritant the community wants removed. He raises questions about themselves that people can\rquote t answer.\'94
\par      \'93We shouldn\rquote t be talking about him,\'94 she said. \'93Not here.\'94 She looked around the grove. \'93But I have to talk about him \endash  or go crazy.\'94
\par      \'93That\rquote s quite natural,\'94 he said, his voice carefully soothing. \'93The disturbance }{\i\insrsid11485343 he}{\insrsid11485343  created, the community disturbance is \'85 Damn it! Words are so stupid sometimes!\'94
\par      \'93I know,\'94 she said. \'93I can take the clinical approach, too. If my \'85 if that man in the jail should be judged insane and sent to a mental hospital, people\rquote d have to ask themselves very disturbing questions.\'94
\par      \'93Can a person appear sane when he\rquote s really insane?\'94 Thurlow said. \'93Can a man be insane when he thinks he\rquote s sane? Could }{\i\insrsid11485343 I}{\insrsid11485343  be insane enough to do the things this man did?\'94
\par      \'93I\rquote m through crying now,\'94 she said. She glanced up at Thurlow, looked away. \'93The daughter\rquote s had her fill of \'85 sorrow. I \'85\'94 She took a deep breath. \'93I can \'85 hate \'85 for the way my mother died. But I\rquote 
m still a psychiatric nurse and I know all the professional cant. None of it helps the daughter much. It\rquote s odd \endash  as though I were more than one person.\'94
\par      Again, she looked up at Thurlow, her expression open, without any defenses. \'93And I can run to the man I love and ask him to take me away from here because I\rquote m afraid \'85 deathly afraid.\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 The man I love!}{\insrsid11485343  Her words seared his mind. He shook his head. \'93But \'85 what about \'85\'94
\par      \'93Nev?\'94 How bitter she made the name sound. \'93I haven\rquote t lived with Nev for three months now. I\rquote ve been staying with Sarah French. Nev \'85 Nev was a hideous mistake. That }{\i\insrsid11485343 grasping}{\insrsid11485343 
 little man!\'94
\par      Thurlow found his throat was tight with suppressed emotion. He coughed, looked up at the darkening sky, said: \'93It\rquote ll be dark in a few minutes.\'94 How stupidly inane the words sounded!
\par      She put a hand on his arm. \'93Andy, oh Andy, what\rquote ve I done to us?\'94
\par      She came into his arms very gently. He stroked her hair. \'93We\rquote re still here,\'94 he said. \'93We\rquote re still us.\'94
\par      Ruth looked up at him. \'93The trouble with that man in the jail is he has a }{\i\insrsid11485343 sane}{\insrsid11485343  type of delusion.\'94 Tears were running down her cheeks, but her voice remained steady. \'93He thinks my mother w
as unfaithful to him. Lots of men worry about that. I imagine \'85 even \'85 Nev could worry about that\'94
\par      A sudden gust of wind shook raindrops off the leaves, spattering them.
\par      Ruth freed herself from his arms. \'93Let\rquote s walk out to the point.\'94
\par      \'93In the dark?\'94
\par      \'93We know the way. Besides, the riding club has lights there now. You see them every night across the valley from the hospital. They\rquote re automatic.\'94
\par      \'93It\rquote s liable to rain.\'94
\par      \'93Then it won\rquote t matter if I cry. My cheeks\rquote ll already be wet.\'94
\par      \'93Ruth \'85 honey \'85 I \'85\'94
\par      \'93Just take me for a walk the way \'85 we used to.\'94
\par      Still he hesitated. There was something frightening about the grove \'85 pressure, an }{\i\insrsid11485343 almost}{\insrsid11485343  sound. He stepped to the car, reached in and found his glasses. He slipped them on, looked around-nothing. No }{
\i\insrsid11485343 gnats,}{\insrsid11485343  not a sign of anything odd \endash  except the pressure.
\par      \'93You won\rquote t need your glasses,\'94 Ruth said. She took his arm.
\par      Thurlow found he couldn\rquote t speak past a sudden ache in his throat. He tried to analyze his fear. It wasn\rquote t a personal thing. He decided he was afraid }{\i\insrsid11485343 for}{\insrsid11485343  Ruth.
\par      \'93Come on,\'94 she said.
\par      He allowed her to lead him across the grass toward the bridle path. Darkness came like a sharp demarcation as they emerged from the eucalyptus grove onto the first rise up through pines and buckeyes that hemmed the riding club\rquote 
s trail. Widely spaced night-riding lights attached to the trees came on with a wet glimmering through drenched leaves. In spite of the afternoon\rquote s rain, the duff-packed trail felt firm underfoot.
\par      \'93We\rquote ll have the trail to ourselves tonight,\'94 Ruth said. \'93No one\rquote ll be out because of the rain.\'94 She squeezed his arm.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 But we don\rquote t have it to ourselves,}{\insrsid11485343  Thurlow thought. He could feel a presence with them \endash  a hovering something \'85
 watchful, dangerous. He looked down at Ruth. The top of her head came just above his shoulder. The red hair glinted wetly in the dim overhead light. There was a feeling of damp silence around them \endash 
 and that odd sense of pressure. The packed duff of the trail absorbed their footfalls with barely a sound.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 This is a crazy feeling,}{\insrsid11485343  he thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 If a patient described this to me, I\rquote d begin probing immediately for the source of the delusional material.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93I used to walk lip here when I was a child,\'94 Ruth said. \'93That was before they put in the lights for the night parties. I hated it when they put in the lights.\'94
\par      \'93You walked here in the dark?\'94 he asked.
\par      \'93Yes. I never told you that, did I?\'94
\par      \'93No.\'94
\par      \'93The air feels clear after the rain.\'94 She took a deep breath.
\par      \'93Didn\rquote t your parents object? How old were you?\'94
\par      \'93About eleven, I guess. My parents didn\rquote t know. They were always so busy with parties and things.\'94
\par      The bridle p
ath diverged at a small glade with a dark path leading off to the left through an opening in a rock retaining wall. They went through the gap, down a short flight of steps and onto the tarred top of an elevated water storage tank. Below them the city
\rquote s lights spread wet velvet jewels across the night. The lights cast an orange glow against low hanging clouds.
\par      Now, Thurlow could feel the odd pressure intensely. He looked up and around \endash  nothing. He glanced down at the pale grayness of Ruth\rquote s face.
\par      \'93When we got here you used to say: \lquote May I kiss you?\rquote \'94 she said. \'93And I used to say: \lquote I was hoping you\rquote d ask.\rquote \'94
\par      Ruth turned, pressed against him, lifted her face. His fears, the vague pressure, all were forgotten as he bent to kiss her. It seemed for a moment that time had moved backward, that Denver, Nev \endash 
 none of these things had happened. But the warmth of her kiss, the demanding way her body pressed against him \endash  these filled him with a mounting astonishment. He pulled away.
\par      \'93Ruth, I \'85\'94
\par      She put a finger against his lips. \'93Don\rquote t say it.\'94 Then: \'93Andy, didn\rquote t you ever want to go to a motel with me?\'94
\par      \'93Hell! Lots of times, but \'85\'94
\par      \'93You\rquote ve never made a real pass at me.\'94
\par      He felt that she was laughing at him and this brought anger into his voice. \'93I was in love with you!\'94
\par      \'93I know,\'94 she whispered.
\par      \'93I didn\rquote t want just a roll in the hay. I wanted \'85 well, dammit, I wanted to }{\i\insrsid11485343 mate}{\insrsid11485343  with you, have children, the whole schmoo.\'94
\par      \'93What a fool I was,\'94 she whispered.
\par      \'93Honey, what\rquote re you going to do? Are you going to get \'85 a \'85\'94 He hesitated.
\par      \'93A divorce?\'94 she asked. \'93Of course \endash  afterward.\'94
\par      \'93After the \'85 trial.\'94
\par      \'93Yes.\'94
\par      \'93That\rquote s the trouble with a small town,\'94 he said. \'93Everyone knows everyone else\rquote s business even when it\rquote s none of their business.\'94
\par      \'93For a psychologist, that\rquote s a very involved sentence,\'94 she said. She snuggled against him and they stood there silently while Thurlow remembered the
 vague pressure and probed for it in his mind as though it were a sore tooth. Yes, it was still there. When he relaxed his guard, a deep disquiet filled him.
\par      \'93I keep thinking about my mother,\'94 Ruth said.
\par      \'93Oh?\'94
\par      \'93She loved my father, too.\'94
\par    
  Coldness settled in his stomach. He started to speak, remained silent as his eyes detected movement against the orange glow of clouds directly in front of him. An object settled out of the clouds and came to a hovering stop about a hundred yards away an
d slightly above their water-tank vantage point. Thurlow could define the thing\rquote s shape against the background glow \endash 
 four shimmering tubular legs beneath a fluorescing green dome. A rainbow circle of light whirled around the base of each leg.
\par      \'93Andy! You\rquote re hurting me!\'94
\par      He realized he had locked his arms around her in a spasm of shock. Slowly, he released his grip.
\par      \'93Turn around,\'94 he whispered. \'93Tell me what you see out there against the clouds.\'94
\par      She gave him a puzzled frown, turned to peer out toward the city. \'93Where?\'94
\par      \'93Slightly above us \endash  straight ahead against the clouds.\'94
\par      \'93I don\rquote t see anything.\'94
\par      The object began drifting nearer. Thurlow could distinguish figures behind the green dome. They moved in a dim, phosphorescent light. The rainbow glow beneath the thing\rquote s tubular legs began to fade.
\par      \'93What\rquote re you looking at?\'94 Ruth asked. \'93What is it?\'94
\par      He felt her trembling beneath his hand on her shoulder. \'93Right there,\'94 he said, pointing. \'93Look, right there.\'94
\par      She bent to stare along his arm. \'93I don\rquote t see a thing \endash  just clouds.\'94
\par      He wrenched off his glasses. \'93Here. Look through these.\'94 Even without the glasses, Thurlow could see the thing\rquote s outline. It. coasted along the edge of the hill-nearer \'85 nearer.
\par      Ruth put on the glasses, looked where he pointed. \'93I \'85 a dark blur of some kind,\'94 she said. \'93It looks like \'85 smoke or a cloud \'85 or \'85 insects. Is it a swarm of insects?\'94
\par      Thurlow\rquote s mouth felt dry. There was a painful constricting sensation in his throat. He 
reclaimed his glasses, looked at the drifting object. The figures inside were quite distinct now. He counted five of them, the great staring eyes all focused on him.
\par      \'93Andy! What is it you see?\'94
\par      \'93You\rquote re going to think I\rquote m nuts.\'94
\par      \'93What is it?\'94
\par      He took a deep breath, described the object.
\par      \'93Five men in it?\'94
\par      \'93Perhaps they\rquote re men, but they\rquote re very small. They look no more than three feet tall.\'94
\par      \'93Andy, you\rquote re frightening me. Why are you frightening me?\'94
\par      \'93I\rquote m frightening myself.\'94
\par      She pressed back into his arms. \'93Are you sure you see this \'85 this \'85 I can\rquote t see a thing.\'94
\par      \'93I see them as plainly as I see you. If it\rquote s illusion, it\rquote s a most complete illusion.\'94
\par      The rainbow glow beneath the tubular legs had become a dull blue. The object settled lower, lower, came to a hovering stop about fifteen yards away and level with them.
\par      \'93Maybe it\rquote s a new kind of helicopter,\'94 Ruth said. \'93Or \'85 Andy, I still can\rquote t see it.\'94
\par      \'93Describe what you see \'85\'94 He pointed \'93 \'85 right there.\'94
\par      \'93A little mistiness. It looks like it\rquote s going to rain again.\'94
\par      \'93They\rquote re working with a square machine of some kind,\'94 he said. \'93It has what look like short antennae. The antennae glow. They\rquote re pointing it at us.\'94
\par      \'93Andy, I\rquote m scared.\'94 She was shivering in his arms.
\par      \'93I \'85 think we\rquote d better get out of here,\'94 he said. He willed himself to leave, found he couldn\rquote t move.
\par      \'93I \'85 can\rquote t \'85 move,\'94 Ruth whispered.
\par      He could hear her teeth chattering, but his own body felt frozen in dull cement.
\par      \'93Andy, I can\rquote t move!\'94 There was hysteria in her voice. \'93Is it still there?\'94
\par      \'93They\rquote re pointing some device at us,\'94 he husked. His voice felt as- though it came from far away, from another person. \'93They\rquote re doing this to us. Are you }{\i\insrsid11485343 sure}{\insrsid11485343  you can\rquote 
t see anything?\'94
\par      \'93Nothing! A misty little cloud, nothing else.\'94
\par      Thurlow felt suddenly that she was just being obstinate. Anyone could see the thing right there in front of them! Intense anger at her surged through him. Why wouldn\rquote t she admit she 
saw it? Right there! He hated her for being so obstinate. The irrational abruptness of the emotion asserted itself in his awareness. He began to question his own reaction.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 How could I feel hate for Ruth? I love her.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      As though this thought freed him, Thurlow found he could move his legs. He began backing away, dragging Ruth with him. She was a heavy, unmoving weight. Her feet scraped against the gravel in the tank\rquote s surface.
\par      His movement set off a flurry of activity among the creatures beneath the green dome. They buzzed and fussed over their square machine. A painful constriction seized Thurlow\rquote 
s chest. Each breath took a laboring concentration. Still, he continued backing away dragging Ruth with him. She sagged in his arms now. His foot encou
ntered a step and he almost fell. Slowly, he began inching backward up the steps. Ruth was a dead weight.
\par      \'93Andy,\'94 she gasped. \'93Can\rquote t \'85 breathe.\'94
\par      \'93Hold \'85 on,\'94 he rasped.
\par      They were at the top of the steps now, then back through the gap in the stone wall. Movement became somewhat easier, although he could still see the domed object hovering beyond the water storage tank. The glowing antennae remained pointed at him.

\par      Ruth began to move her legs. She turned, and they hobbled together onto the bridle path. Each step grew easier. Thurlow could hear her taking deep, sighing breaths. Abruptly, as though a weight had been lifted from them, they regained full use of the
ir muscles.
\par      They turned.
\par      \'93It\rquote s gone,\'94 Thurlow said.
\par      She reacted with an anger that astonished him. \'93What were you trying to pull back there, Andy Thurlow? Frightening me half out of my wits!\'94
\par      \'93I saw what I told you I saw,\'94 he said. \'93You may not\rquote ve seen it, but you certainly felt it\'94
\par      \'93Hysterical paralysis,\'94 she said.
\par      \'93It gripped us both at the same instant and left us both at the same instant,\'94 he said.
\par      \'93Why not?\'94
\par      \'93Ruth, I saw exactly what I described.\'94
\par      \'93Flying saucers!\'94 she sneered.
\par      \'93No \'85 well, maybe. But it was there!\'94 He was angry now, defensive. A rational part of him saw how insane the past few minutes had been. Could it have been illusion? No! He shook his head. \'93Honey, I saw \'85\'94
\par      \'93Don\rquote t you }{\i\insrsid11485343 honey}{\insrsid11485343  me!\'94
\par      He grabbed her shoulders, shook her. \'93Ruth! Two minutes ago you were saying you love me. Can you turn it off just like that?\'94
\par      \'93I \'85\'94
\par      \'93Does somebody want you to hate me?\'94
\par      \'93What?\'94 She stared up at him, her face dim in the tree lights.
\par      \'93Back there \'85\'94 He nodded toward the tank. \'93I felt myself angry with you \'85 hating you. I told myself I couldn\rquote t hate you. I love you. That\rquote s when I found I could move. But when I felt the \'85
 hate, the instant I felt it, that was exactly when they pointed their machine at us.\'94
\par      \'93What machine?\'94
\par      \'93Some kind of box with glowing rods or antennae sticking out of it.\'94
\par      \'93Are you trying to tell me that those nutty \'85 }{\i\insrsid11485343 whatever}{\insrsid11485343  could make you feel hate \'85 or \'85\'94
\par      \'93That\rquote s how it felt.\'94
\par      \'93That\rquote s the craziest thing I ever heard!\'94 She backed away from him.
\par      \'93I know it\rquote s crazy, but that\rquote s how it felt.\'94 He reached for her arm. \'93Let\rquote s get back to the car.\'94
\par      Ruth pulled away. \'93I\rquote m not going a step with you until you explain what happened out there.\'94
\par      \'93I can\rquote t explain it.\'94
\par      \'93How could you see it when I couldn\rquote t?\'94
\par      \'93Maybe the accident \'85 my eyes, the polarizing.
\par      \'93Are you sure that accident at the radlab didn\rquote t injure more than your eyes?\'94
\par      He suppressed a surge of anger. It was so easy to feel angry. With some difficulty, he held his voice level. \'93
They had me on the artificial kidney for a week and with every test known to God and man. The burst altered the ion exchange system in the cones of my retinas. That\rquote s all. And it isn\rquote t permane
nt. But I think whatever happened to my eyes, that\rquote s why I can see these things. I\rquote m not supposed to see them, but I can.\'94
\par      Again, he reached for her, captured her arm. Half dragging her, he set off down the path. She fell into step beside him.
\par      \'93But what could they be?\'94 she asked.
\par      \'93I don\rquote t know, but they\rquote re real. Trust me, Ruth. Trust that much. They\rquote re real.\'94 He knew he was begging and hated himself for it, but Ruth moved closer, tucked her arm under his.
\par      \'93All right, darling, I trust you. You saw what you saw. What\rquote re you going to do about it?\'94
\par      They came off the trail and into the eucalyptus grove. The car was a darker shape among shadows. Thurlow drew her to a stop beside it.
\par      \'93How hard is it to believe me?\'94 he asked.
\par      She was silent for a moment, then: \'93It\rquote s \'85 difficult.\'94
\par      \'93Okay,\'94 he said. \'93Kiss me.\'94
\par      \'93What?\'94
\par      \'93Kiss me. Let\rquote s see if you really hate me.\'94
\par      \'93Andy, you\rquote re being \'85\'94
\par      \'93Are you afraid to kiss me?\'94
\par      \'93Of course not!\'94
\par      \'93Okay then.\'94 He pulled her to him. Their lips met. For an instant, he sensed resistance, then she melted into his embrace, her arms creeping behind his neck.
\par      Presently, he drew away.
\par      \'93If that\rquote s hate, I want lots of it,\'94 he said.
\par      \'93Me, too.\'94
\par      Again, she pressed herself against him.
\par      Thurlow felt his blood pounding. He pulled away with an abrupt, defensive motion.
\par      \'93Sometimes I wish you weren\rquote t so damned Victorian,\'94 she said. \'93But maybe I wouldn\rquote t love you then.\'94 He brushed a strand of the red hair away 
from her cheek. How faintly glowing her face looked in the light from the bridle trail lamps behind him. \'93I think I\rquote d better take you home \'85 to Sarah.\'94
\par      \'93I don\rquote t want you to take me home.\'94
\par      \'93I don\rquote t want you to go home.\'94
\par      \'93But I\rquote d better?\'94
\par      \'93You\rquote d better.\'94
\par      She put her hands against his chest, pushed away.
\par      They got into the car, moving with a sudden swift embarrassment. Thurlow started the engine, concentrated on backing to the turn-around. The headlights picked out lines of crusty 
brown bark on the trees. Abruptly, the headlights went dark. The engine died with a gasping cough. A breathless, oppressive sensation seized him.
\par      \'93Andy!\'94 Ruth said. \'93What\rquote s happening?\'94
\par      Thurlow forced himself to turn to the left, wondering how he knew where to look. There were four rainbow glows close to the ground, the tubular legs and the green dome just outside the grove. The thing hovered there, silent, menacing.
\par      \'93They\rquote re back,\'94 he whispered. \'93Right there.\'94 He pointed.
\par      \'93Andy \'85 Andy, I\rquote m frightened.\'94 She huddled against him.
\par      \'93No matter what happens, you don\rquote t hate me,\'94 he said. \'93You love me. Remember that. You love me. Keep it in your mind.\'94
\par      \'93I love you.\'94 Her voice was faint.
\par      A directionless sense of anger began to fill Thurlow. It had no object at first. Just anger. Then he could actually feel it trying to point at Ruth.
\par      \'93I \'85 want to \'85 hate you,\'94 she whispered.
\par      \'93You love me,\'94 he said. \'93Don\rquote t forget that.\'94
\par      \'93I love you. Oh, Andy, I love you. I don\rquote t want to hate you \'85 I love you.\'94
\par      Thurlow lifted a fist, shook it at the green dome. \'93Hate them,\'94 he rasped. \'93Hate bastards who\rquote d try to manipulate us that way.\'94
\par      He could feel her shaking and trembling against his shoulder. \'93I \'85 hate \'85 them,\'94 she said.
\par      \'93Now, do you believe me?\'94
\par      \'93Yes! Yes, I believe you!\'94
\par      \'93Could the car have hysterical paralysis?\'94
\par      \'93No. Oh, Andy, I couldn\rquote t just turn on hate against you. I couldn\rquote t.\'94 His arm ached where she clutched it \'93What are they? My God! What is it?\'94
\par      \'93I don\rquote t think they\rquote re human,\'94 Thurlow said.
\par      \'93What\rquote re we going to do?\'94
\par      \'93Anything we can.\'94
\par      The rainbow circles beneath the dome shifted into the blue, then violet and into the red. The thing began to lift away from the grove. It receded into the darkness. With it went the sense of oppression.
\par      \'93It\rquote s gone, isn\rquote t it?\'94 Ruth whispered.
\par      \'93It\rquote s gone.\'94
\par      \'93Your lights are on,\'94 she said.
\par      He looked down at the dash lights, out at the twin cones of the headlights stabbing into the grove.
\par      He recalled the shape of the thing then \endash  like a giant spider ready to pounce on them. He shuddered. What were the creatures in that ominous machine?
\par      Like a giant spider.
\par      His mind dredged up a memory out of childhood: }{\i\insrsid11485343 Oberorn\rquote s palace has walls of spider\rquote s legs.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      Were they faerie, the huldu-folk?
\par      Where did the myths originate? he wondered. He could feel his mind questing down old paths and he remembered a verse from those days of innocence.
\par 
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 \'93See ye not yon bonny road}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 That winds about yon fernie brae?}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 That is the road to fair Elfland.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Where thou and I this night maun gae.\'94}{\insrsid11485343 
\par 
\par      \'93Hadn\rquote t we better go?\'94 Ruth asked. He started the engine, his hands moving automatically through the kinesthetic pattern.
\par      \'93It stopped the motor and turned off the lights,\'94 Ruth said. \'93Why would they do that?\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 They!}{\insrsid11485343  he thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 No doubts now.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      He headed the car out of the grove down the hill toward Moreno Drive.
\par      \'93What\rquote re we going to do?\'94 Ruth asked.
\par      \'93Can we do anything?\'94
\par      \'93If we talk about it, people\rquote ll say we\rquote re crazy. Besides \'85 the two of us \'85 up here \'85\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 We\rquote re neatly boxed,}{\insrsid11485343  he thought. And he imagined what Whelye would say to a recountal of this night\rquote s experiences. }{\i\insrsid11485343 \'93You were with another man\rquote s wife
, you say? Could guilt feelings have brought on this shared delusion?\'94}{\insrsid11485343  And if this met with protests and further suggestions, }{\i\insrsid11485343 \'93Faerie folk? My dear Thurlow, do you feel well?\'94}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      Ruth leaned against him. \'93Andy, if they could make us hate, could they make us love?\'94
\par      He swerved the car over to the shoulder of the road, turned off the motor, set the handbrake, extinguished the lights. \'93They\rquote re not here right now.\'94
\par      \'93How do we know?\'94
\par      He stared around at the night \endash  blackness, not even starlight under those clouds \'85 no glow of weird object \endash  but beyond the trees bordering the road \'85 what?
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Could they make us love?}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Damn her for asking such a question!}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Not I mustn\rquote t damn her. I must love her}{\insrsid11485343  \'85 }{\i\insrsid11485343 I}{\insrsid11485343  \'85 }{\i\insrsid11485343 must.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93Andy? What\rquote re you doing?\'94
\par      \'93Thinking.\'94
\par      \'93Andy, I still find this whole thing so unreal. Couldn\rquote t there be some other explanation? I mean, your motor stopping \'85 Motors do stop; lights go out. Don\rquote t they?\'94
\par      \'93What do you want from me?\'94 he asked. \'93Do you want me to say yes, I\rquote m nuts, I\rquote m deluded. I\rquote m \'85\'94
\par      She put a hand over his mouth. \'93What I want is for you to make love to me and never stop.\'94
\par      He started to put an arm around her, but she pushed him away. \'93No. When that happens, I want to know it\rquote s us making love, not someone forcing us.\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Damn her practicality!}{\insrsid11485343  he thought. Then: }{\i\insrsid11485343 No! I love her \'85 but is it me loving her? Is it my own doing?}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93Andy? There is something you can do for me.\'94
\par      \'93What?\'94
\par      \'93The house on Manchester Avenue \'85 where Nev and I were living \endash  there\rquote re some things I want from there, but I\rquote ve been afraid to go over there alone. Would you take me?\'94
\par      \'93Now?\'94
\par      \'93It\rquote s early yet. Nev may still be down at the plant My \'85 father made him assistant manager, you know. Hasn\rquote t anyone told you that\rquote s why he married me? To get the business.\'94
\par      Thurlow put a hand on her arm. \'93You want him to know \'85 about us?\'94
\par      \'93What\rquote s there to know?\'94
\par      He returned his hand to the steering wheel. \'93Okay, darling. As you say.\'94
\par      Again, he started the motor, pulled the car onto the road. They drove in silence. The tires hissed against wet pavement. Other cars passed, their lights glaring. Thurlow adjusted the polarizing lenses. It was a delicate thing \endash 
 to give him enough visibility but prevent the pain of sudden light.
\par      Presently, Ruth said: \'93I don\rquote t want any trouble, a fight. You wait for me in the car. If I need help, I\rquote ll call.\'94
\par      \'93You\rquote re sure you don\rquote t want me to go in with you?\'94
\par      \'93He won\rquote t try anything if he knows you\rquote re there.\'94
\par      He shrugged. She was probably right. Certainly, she must know Nev Hudson\rquote 
s character by now. But Thurlow still felt a nagging sensation of suspended judgment. He suspected the events of the past few days, even the menacing encounter of this night, made some odd kind of sense.
\par      \'93Why did I marry him?\'94 Ruth asked. \'93I keep asking myself. God knows. I don\rquote t. It just seemed to come to the point where \'85\'94 She shrugged. \'93After tonight, I wonder if any of us knows why we do what we do.\'94
\par      She looked up at Thurlow. \'93Why is this happening, darling?\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 That\rquote s it,}{\insrsid11485343  Thurlow thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 There\rquote s the sixty-four dollar question. It\rquote s not who are these creatures? It\rquote s}{\insrsid11485343  \'85 }{\i\insrsid11485343 
what do they want? Why are they interfering in our lives?}{\insrsid11485343 
\par \page 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\qc \li0\ri3389\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin3389\lin0\itap0\pararsid11485343 \b\f1\fs26\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11485343 8
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri3389\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin3389\lin0\itap0\pararsid11485343 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11485343 
\par      FRAFFIN GLARED AT THE I
MAGE PROJECTED ABOVE HIS desk. It was Lutt, his Master-of-Craft, a broad-faced Chem, steely skinned, harsh and abrupt in his decisions, lacking subtlety. He combined all the best qualities for one who supervised the mechanical end of this work, but those 
very qualities interfered with his present assignment. He obviously equated subtlety with caution.
\par      A moment of silence served to acquaint Lutt with the Director\rquote s displeasure. Fraffin felt the contour pressures of his chair, glanced at the silvery web of the pantovive across the salon. Yes, Lutt was like that instrument He had to be }{
\i\insrsid11485343 activated}{\insrsid11485343  correctly.
\par      Fraffin ran a finger along his jaw, said: \'93I didn\rquote t tell you to spare the immune. You were directed to bring the female here \endash  at once!\'94
\par      \'93If I have erred, I abase myself,\'94 Lutt said. \'93But I acted on the basis of past directives concerning this immune. The way you gave his female to another, the way you \'85\'94
\par      \'93He was an amusing diversion, no more,\'94 Fraffin said. \'93Kelexel has asked to }{\i\insrsid11485343 examine}{\insrsid11485343  a 
native and he has mentioned this female specifically by name. She is to be brought here at once, unharmed. That proviso doesn\rquote t apply to }{\i\insrsid11485343 any}{\insrsid11485343 
 other native who tries to interfere or delay you in the execution of this order. Am I understood?\'94
\par      \'93The Director is understood,\'94 Lutt said. There was fear in his voice. Lutt knew the possible consequences of Fraffin\rquote 
s displeasure: dismissal from a position of unlimited delights and diversions, from a life that never bored. He lived in a Chem paradise from which he
 could easily be shunted to some tertiary post and with no recourse because they shared the same guilt, he and Fraffin, the same guilt with its certain terrible punishment if they were ever discovered.
\par      \'93Without delay,\'94 Fraffin said.
\par      \'93She will be here before this shift is half spent,\'94 Lutt said. \'93I go to obey.\'94
\par      Lutt\rquote s image faded, disappeared.
\par      Fraffin leaned back. It was going fairly well \'85 in spite of this delay. Imagine that Lutt trying to separate the lovers by manipulating their emoti
ons! The clod must know the danger of trying that on an immune. Well, the female would be here soon and Kelexel could examine her as he wished. Every tool and device to bend the native\rquote s win would be provided, of course \endash 
 as a matter of courtesy. Let no one question the hospitality of Fraffin the Director Fraffin chuckled.
\par      Let the stupid investigator try the pleasures of this native. Let him impregnate the female. His flesh would know it when it was done. Accomplished breeding would accelerate his need
 for rejuvenation and where could he turn? Could he go back to the Primacy and say: \'93Rejuvenate me; I\rquote ve produced an unlicensed child\'94? His flesh wouldn\rquote t permit that \endash 
 no more than would the Primacy with its hidebound absolutes.
\par      Oh, no. Kelexel would know the storyship had its own Rejuvenators, its own surgeon. He\rquote d come begging, his mind telling him: }{\i\insrsid11485343 \'93I can have as many children}{\insrsid11485343  as }{\i\insrsid11485343 
I wish and damn the Primacy!\'94}{\insrsid11485343  Once he\rquote d been rejuvenated, the storyship would own him.
\par      Again, Fraffin chuckled.
\par      They might even get back to the lovely little war in time to make a complete production out of it.
\par \page 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\qc \li0\ri3389\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin3389\lin0\itap0\pararsid11485343 \b\f1\fs26\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11485343 9
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri3389\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin3389\lin0\itap0\pararsid11485343 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11485343 
\par      RUTH WAS SURPRISED TO FIND HERSELF ENJOYING THE anger that condensed the room around her. The frustrated emotion that had built up in her out there in the night with Andy had an outlet at last. She watched the nervous twisting of Nev\rquote 
s pink hands with their baby-skin creases at the knuckles. She
 knew how his hands betrayed his feelings no matter what the masked rest of him revealed. Eight months of living with the man had given her considerable knowledge. Words came out of her full lips now like slivers of bamboo to be inserted beneath Nev
\rquote s manicured soul.
\par      \'93Scream about your husband\rquote s rights all you want,\'94 she said. \'93The business is mine now and I don\rquote t want you anywhere near it. Ohhh, I know why you married me. You didn\rquote t fool me for long, Nev. Not for long.\'94
\par      \'93Ruth, you \'85\'94
\par      \'93No more! Andy\rquote s out there waiting for me. I\rquote m going to take the few things I want here and I\rquote m leaving.\'94
\par      Nev\rquote s wide high forehead creased. The shoe-button eyes stared at her with their matched nothingness. }{\i\insrsid11485343 On one of her rampages again, that\rquote s all. And enjoy
ing it, damn her! I can tell by the way she shakes her head like a horse}{\insrsid11485343  \'85 }{\i\insrsid11485343 whores \'85 horse \'85 whores \endash  a horsey, high-class whore.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      Ruth broke her gaze away from him. Nev frightened her when he stared that way. She studied the room, wondering if there we
re anything here she wanted now. Nothing. It was a Nev Hudson room with overlapping muted reds and browns, Oriental bric-a-brac, a grand piano in one corner, a closed violin case that opened to reveal three bottles of liquor and a set of glasses. Nev like
d that. }{\i\insrsid11485343 \'93Lets get drunk and make beautiful music, honey.\'94}{\insrsid11485343 
 Windows beyond the piano stood uncurtained to the night and garden lights, lawn, barbecue pit, wrought iron furniture standing whitely dripping after the rain.
\par      \'93California is a community-property state,\'94 Nev said.
\par      \'93You\rquote d better look into the law again,\'94 she said. \'93The business is my inheritance.\'94
\par      \'93Inheritance?\'94 he asked. \'93But your father\rquote s not dead yet.\'94
\par      She stood staring at the night, refusing to let him goad her.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Damn her!}{\insrsid11485343  he thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 I}{\insrsid11485343  }{\i\insrsid11485343 should\rquote ve done better in a woman but not with a business thrown into the bargain. She\rquote 
s thinking about that bastard Andy Thurlow. She wants him but she needs my brains running the business. That ugly stick of a boy-man in her bed! She won\rquote t have him; I\rquote ll see to it.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93If you go away with this }{\i\insrsid11485343 Dr.}{\insrsid11485343  Thurlow, I\rquote ll ruin him professionally and I\rquote ll ruin you,\'94 he said.
\par      She turned her head sideways, presenting a Greek profile, the severe line of her red hair tied at the back. A barely perceptible smile touched her lips, was gone. \'93Jealous, Nev?\'94
\par      \'93I\rquote ve warned you.\'94
\par      \'93You married me for the business,\'94 she said. \'93What do you care how I spend my time?\'94 And she turned toward him. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Squirm, you little pig of a man! What was I thinking of? What
 was I ever thinking of to take you instead of Andy. Did something twist my emotions, make me do it?}{\insrsid11485343  She felt suddenly weak with the hungry hating. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Is}{\insrsid11485343  }{\i\insrsid11485343 
any choice ever right right right? Andy choosing that Fellowship instead of me, his eyes full of innocenc
e oh hateful! Where did I spend my innocence? Unthinking about animal bodies and power. Did I choose power in Nev? But he let me take it away from him his own power and now I can hate him with it.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93The daughter of a murderer!\'94 he snapped.
\par      She glared at him. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Is this what I chose? Why why why? Lonely, that\rquote 
s why. All alone when Andy left men for that damned Fellowship and there was Nev Nev Nev insistent kind kind like a fox. Drunk I was drunk and feeling hateful. Nev used my hate that\rquote s the only power he had \endash  hate my hate my hate I mustn
\rquote t hate then and he\rquote s powerless I won\rquote t even hate him putting his hand on my knee oh so kind so kind and a little higher and there we were in bed married and Andy away in Denver and I was still alone.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93I\rquote m going,\'94 she said. \'93Andy\rquote s going to drive me over to Sarah\rquote s. If you try to stop me, I\rquote ll call him in and I\rquote m quite sure he can handle you.\'94
\par      Nev\rquote s narrow, purse-string mouth tightened. His shoe-button eyes betrayed a brief flaring and then the mask was back in place. }{\i\insrsid11485343 I\rquote ll}{\insrsid11485343  }{\i\insrsid11485343 
ruin them both! The bitch prattling about Andy well I showed dear old honest Andy the boy with the built in system of honor and what would she say if she learned I was the one put on the pressure to get him that Fellowship?}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93You know what the town\rquote ll think,\'94 he said. \'93Like father like daughter. They\rquote ll take my side. You know that.\'94
\par      She stamped her foot. \'93You pig!\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Certainly, Ruth, my dear. Get angry and stamp around like a wonderful animal my god would I like to take you to bed right now angry and hurting throwing yourself and twisting and jerking my god you\rquote re splendid when you
\rquote re angry. I\rquote m better for you than Andy and you should know it we\rquote re two of a kind we take what we want and damn the honor no honor no honor on her on her on her what an animal when she\rquote s angry but that\rquote s what life
\rquote s for to take to}{\insrsid11485343  take }{\i\insrsid11485343 and take and take until we\rquote re filled up on it and she raves about Andy going back to him but Andy doesn\rquote t take from me no siree I\rquote 
ll get rid of him just as easily as I did before and Ruthy\rquote ll come crawling back to her ever loving Nev who knows her right down to her adorable most angry adorable if I only had the guts to yank you into the bedroom right now \'85 well, I\rquote 
d get rid of Andy just like I did before.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93We\rquote ll strike a bargain,\'94 he said. \'93Go along with your lover, but don\rquote t interfere with how I run the business. You said it yourself: what do I care how you spend your time?\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Go ahead, compromise yourselves,}{\insrsid11485343  he thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 I\rquote ll own you.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      She whirled away, strode down the hall, jerked open the bedroom door, snapped on the light.
\par      Nev was right behind her. He stood in the doorway watching as she yanked clothes from drawers and the closet, threw them on the bed.
\par      \'93Well, what about it?\'94 he asked.
\par      She forced words out of her mouth, knowing they told more than she wanted to reveal. \'93All right! Keep the business \'85 or whatever. We know what\rquote s precious to you.\'94 She turned to face him, near tears and fighting to hide it \'93You
\rquote re the most hateful creature I\rquote ve ever met! You can\rquote t be human.\'94 She put a hand to her mouth. \'93I wonder if you are.\'94
\par      \'93What\rquote s that supposed to \'85\'94 He broke off, stared past her toward the French doors onto the patio. \'93Ruth \'85\'94 Her name came out in a strangled gasp.
\par      She whirled.
\par      The French doors stood open to reveal three squat figures clothed in green moving into the room. To Ruth, their heads seemed strangely large, the eyes faintly luminous and frightening. They carried short tubes of s
ilvery metal. There was a disdainful sense of power in the purposeful way they fanned out, pointing those metal tubes casually at the bedroom\rquote s occupants.
\par      Ruth found herself wondering with an odd feeling of surprise how they\rquote d opened the French doors without her hearing it.
\par      Behind her, Nev gasped, said: \'93See here! Who \'85\'94 His voice trailed off in a frightening hiss, an exhalation as though he were a punctured balloon. A liquid trilling sound poured from the mouth of the creature on Ruth\rquote s right.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 This can\rquote t be happening,}{\insrsid11485343  she thought. Then: }{\i\insrsid11485343 They\rquote re the creatures who frightened us in the grove! What do they want? What\rquote re they doing?}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      She found suddenly that she couldn\rquote t move. Her head felt detached, mind clear, but there were no connections to her body. One of the creatures moved to stand directly in front of her \endash 
 a queer little manling in green leotards, his torso partly concealed in a cloudy, bulging roundness that pulsed with a purple inner light She remembered Andy\rquote s description of what he\rquote d seen: }{\i\insrsid11485343 \'93Glowing eyes \'85}{
\insrsid11485343 \'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Andy!}{\insrsid11485343  She wanted to scream for him, but her voice wouldn\rquote t obey. How drifting and soft the world seemed!
\par      Something jerked past her and she saw Nev there walking as though pulled by strings. Her eyes focused on a smudge o
f powder along his shoulder, a pulsing vein at his temple. He tipped forward suddenly in that strange marionette way, falling rigidly into one of the open French doors. There came the crash and tinkling of broken glass. The floor around him became bright 
with flowing red. He twitched, lay still.
\par      The gnome creature in front of her spoke quite distinctly in English: \'93An accident, you see?\'94
\par      She had no voice to answer, only a distant horror somewhere within the powdery billowing that was her self. Ruth closed her eyes, thinking; }{\i\insrsid11485343 Andy! Oh, Andy, help me!}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      Again, she heard one of the creatures speak in that liquid trilling. She tried to open her eyes, couldn\rquote t. Waves of darkness began to wash over what remained of her awareness. As unconsciousness ca
me, her mind focused clearly on a single oddly pertinent thought: }{\i\insrsid11485343 This can\rquote t be happening because no one would believe it. This is nightmare, that\rquote s all.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par \page 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\qc \li0\ri3389\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin3389\lin0\itap0\pararsid11485343 \b\f1\fs26\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11485343 10
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri3389\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin3389\lin0\itap0\pararsid11485343 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11485343 
\par      THURLOW SAT IN THE DARK CAR SMOKING HIS PIPE, wondering what was taking Ruth so long in the house. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Should I go in after all?}{\insrsid11485343  he asked himself. }{\i\insrsid11485343 It isn\rquote 
t right that I stay out here while she\rquote s in there alone with him. But she said she could handle him.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Did Adele think she could handle Joe?}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 That\rquote s a crazy thought!}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      It was raining again, a thin drizzle that misted the streetlight at the corner in front of him. He turned, glanced at the house-lights in the living room, but no sign of movement behind the drawn shades.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 When she comes to the door, I\rquote ll go up and help her carry whatever}{\insrsid11485343  \'85 no! }{\i\insrsid11485343 Dammit, I should go in now. But she must know if she can handle him.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Handle him!}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 What was it like, those two? Why did she marry him?}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      He shook his head, looked away from the house. The night appeared too dark beyond the streetlights and he eased off the setting on his polarizing lenses.
\par      What was keeping her in there?
\par      He thought suddenly of the hovering object he\rquote d seen at the grove. }{\i\insrsid11485343 There must be some logical explanation,}{\insrsid11485343  he thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Perhaps if I called the Air Force \'85 anonymously \'85
 Somebody must have a simple, logical explanation.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 But what if they haven\rquote t?}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 My God! What if the saucer nuts turn out to\rquote ve been right all along?}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      He tried to see his wristwatch, remembered it hadn\rquote t been wound. Damn she was taking a long time in there!
\par      Like a train shunted onto an odd track, his mind veered to a memory of Ruth\rquote s father, the compelling directness of the man\rquote s eyes. }{\i\insrsid11485343 \'93Take care of Ruthy!\'94}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      And that thing hovering at Joe\rquote s window \endash  what had that been?
\par      Thurlow took off his glasses, polished them with a handkerchief, slipped them back on his nose. He remembered Joe Murphey in April, right after the man had turned in the false fire alarm. What a shock it had been to find Ruth\rquote 
s father facing him in the duty little examination room above the sheriff\rquote s office. And there\rquote d been the even greater shock at evaluating the man\rquote s tests. The dry language of his report to the probation office couldn\rquote 
t begin to convey that shock.
\par      \'93I f
ound him to be a man lacking a good central core of balanced feelings. This, coupled to a dangerous compulsive element such as the false fire alarm, should be considered a warning of serious disturbance. Here is a man whose psychological makeup contains a
ll the elements necessary for a terrible tragedy.\'94
\par      The language of the report \endash  so careful in its wording, maintaining the strict esoterica of officialese \'85 he\rquote d known how little it might convey and had supplemented it with a verbal report.
\par      \'93The man\rquote s dangerous. He\rquote s a definite paranoid type and could explode. He\rquote s capable of violence.\'94
\par      The disbelief had been frightening. \'93Surely this is nothing more than a prank. Joe Murphey! Hell, he\rquote s an important man here, Andy. Well \'85 could you recommend analysis \'85 psychoanalysis.\'94
\par      \'93He won\rquote t have anything to do with it \'85 and I doubt it\rquote d do him any good.\'94
\par      \'93Well, what do you expect us to do? Can\rquote t you recommend something?\'94
\par      \'93Maybe we can get him into a church. I\rquote ll call Father Giles at the Episcopal church and see if \'85\'94
\par      \'93A church?\'94
\par      Thurlow remembered his rueful shrug, the too pat words: \'93I\rquote ll probably be read out of the order for this, but religion often does what psychology can\rquote t.\'94
\par      Thurlow sighed. Father Giles, of course, had been unsuccessful.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Damn! What was keeping Ruth in that house?}{\insrsid11485343  He reached for the car door, thought better of it. }{\i\insrsid11485343 
Give her a few more minutes. Everything was quiet in there. Probably it was taking her time to pack.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Ruth \'85 Ruth \'85 Ruth \'85}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      He remembered that she\rquote d taken his probation report with better balance than the officials. But she was trained in his field and she\rquote d suspected for some time that her father was disturbed. Thurlow remembered he\rquote 
d gone out to the hospital immediately after the session in the probation office. Ruth had accompanied him, looking withdrawn and fearful, into the almost deserted cafeteria. They\rquote 
d taken their cups to a corner table. He remembered the steam-table smell of the place, the faint antiseptic background, the marbleized linoleum tabletop with its leftover coffee stains.
\par      Her cup had clattered in a trembling staccato as she\rquote d put it down. He\rquote d sat silently for a moment, sensing her need to come to grips with what he\rquote d told her.
\par      Presently, she\rquote d nodded, then: \'93I knew it \'85 I guess.\'94
\par      \'93Ruth, I\rquote ll do everything I \'85\'94
\par      \'93No.\'94 She tucked a strand of red hair under her cap. \'93They let him call me from the jail \'85 just before you came. He was furious with you. He won\rquote t accept anything you say.\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 They must\rquote ve told him about my report,}{\insrsid11485343  Thurlow thought. \'93Now he knows his mask of sanity isn\rquote t working,\'94 he said. \'93Of course he\rquote s furious.\'94
\par      \'93Andy \'85 are you sure?\'94
\par      She put her hand on his, her palm damp with perspiration. He held her hand, thinking of mingled perspiration: the idea carried an odd sense of intimacy.
\par      \'93You\rquote re sure,\'94 she sighed. \'93I\rquote ve seen it coming.\'94 Again, that deep sigh. \'93I didn\rquote t tell you about Christmas.\'94
\par      \'93Christmas?\'94
\par      \'93Christmas Eve. My \'85 I came home from the hospital. I had the late shift then, remember? He was walking around talking to himself \'85 saying horrible things about mother. I could hear her upstairs in her room \'85 crying. I \'85
 I guess I screamed at him, called him a liar.\'94
\par      She took two quick breaths.
\par      \'93He \'85 hit me, knocked me into the Christmas tree \'85 everything knocked over \'85\'94 She put a hand to her eyes. \'93He\rquote d never hit me before \endash  always said he didn\rquote t believe in spankings, he\rquote 
d had so many beatings when he was a boy.\'94
\par      \'93Why didn\rquote t you tell me?\'94
\par      \'93We were \'85 I \'85 I was ashamed of \'85 I thought if \'85\'94 She shrugged. \'93I went out to the clinic and saw Dr. Whelye, but he said \'85 fights, people in the conflict of marriage are \'85\'94
\par      \'93Sounds like him. Did your mother know he hit you?\'94
\par      \'93She heard him storm out and slam the door. He didn\rquote t come back all night. Christmas Eve! She \'85 she\rquote d heard the commotion. She came down, helped me clean up the mess.\'94
\par      \'93I wish I\rquote d known this when I was talking to \'85\'94
\par      \'93What good would it do? Everyone defends him, even mother. You know what she said while she was helping me clean up? \lquote Your father\rquote s a very sick man, Ruthy.\rquote  Defending him!\'94
\par      \'93What about your neighbor, Sarah French? Does \'85 ?\'94
\par      \'93Oh \'85 she and Dr. French heard the fights. Sarah \'85 Sarah knows daddy\rquote s sick. Dr. French \'85\'94 Ruth shrugged.
\par      \'93But as long as she knows, maybe \'85\'94
\par      \'93She doesn\rquote t mean mental illness. Dr. French thinks he has a progressive sclerotic condition, but daddy won\rquote t go into the hospital for a complete examination. She knows about that and that\rquote s what she meant. That\rquote 
s all she meant!\'94
\par      \'93Ruth \'85\'94 He thought about this revelation for a moment. \'93Ruth, severe conditions of this kind, Monckeberg\rquote s sclerosis, for example, frequently are accompanied by personality distortions. Didn\rquote t you know this?\'94
\par      \'93I \'85 he wouldn\rquote t cooperate, go to a hospital or anything. I talked to Dr. French \'85 Whelye. He was no help at all. I warned mother \endash  the violence and \'85\'94
\par      \'93Perhaps if she\rquote d \'85\'94
\par      \'93They\rquote ve been married twenty-seven years. I can\rquote t convince her he really might harm her.\'94
\par      \'93But he struck you, knocked you down.\'94
\par      \'93She said I provoked him.\'94
\par      Memories, memories \endash  an antiseptic little corner of the hospital cafeteria and it was fixed in his memory now as indelibly as was this dark s
treet outside the house where Ruth had lived with Nev. The warnings about Joe Murphey had been plain enough, but the world wasn\rquote t yet prepared to understand and protect itself from its own madness.
\par      Again, he looked at the silent house, the glow of lights through the rain. As he looked, a woman in a glistening raincoat came running out between Ruth\rquote 
s house and the one on the left. For an instant, he thought it was Ruth and he was half out of the car before the streetlight hit her and he saw it was an ol
der woman with a coat thrown on over a robe. She wore slippers that squished wetly as she crossed the lawn.
\par      \'93You, there!\'94 she called, waving at Thurlow.
\par      Thurlow came fully out of the car. The rain was cold in his hair, on his face. He felt overcome with foreboding.
\par      The woman came panting up to him, stopped with the rain running down out of her gray hair. \'93Our telephone\rquote s out,\'94 she said. \'93My husband\rquote s run across to the Innesses to use theirs, but I thought maybe all the phones\rquote 
re out, so I came \'85\'94
\par      \'93Why do you need a phone?\'94 The words sounded hoarse even to him.
\par      \'93We live next door \'85\'94 She pointed. \'93I can see from our kitchen across the patio to the Hudsons\rquote  and I saw him lying there, so I ran over \'85 he\rquote s dead \'85\'94
\par      \'93Ruth \'85 Mrs. Hudson?\'94
\par      \'93No, Mr. Hudson. I saw her come in a while ago, but there\rquote s no sign of her around. We\rquote ve got to call the police.\'94
\par      \'93Yes, yes, of course.\'94 He started toward the house.
\par      \'93She\rquote s not in there, I tell you. I ran all through the house.\'94
\par      \'93Maybe \'85 maybe you missed \'85\'94
\par      \'93Mister, there\rquote s been a terrible accident, maybe she\rquote s already gone for help.\'94
\par      \'93Accident?\'94 He turned, stared back at her.
\par      \'93He fell into one of them glass doors, cut an artery, looks like. She probably ran for help.\'94
\par      \'93But \'85 I was out here and \'85\'94
\par      A police cruiser came around the corner to his left, its red light flashing. It pulled to a stop behind his car. Two officers got out Thurlow recognized one of them \endash  Maybeck, Carl Maybeck, a slim angular man with bon
y wrists, narrow face. He came loping across the lawn to Thurlow while his companion went to the woman.
\par      \'93Oh \'85 Dr. Thurlow,\'94 Maybeck said. \'93Didn\rquote t recognize you.\'94 He stopped, facing Thurlow. \'93What\rquote s the trouble? We got a call, something about an accident. Ambulance\rquote s on the way.\'94
\par      \'93The woman there \'85\'94 Thurlow nodded toward her, \'93 \'85 says Nev Hudson\rquote s dead, something about falling into some glass. She may be mistaken. Shouldn\rquote t we get inside and \'85\'94
\par      \'93Right away, Doc.\'94
\par      Maybeck led the way running up to the front door. It was locked.
\par      \'93Around the side,\'94 the woman called from behind them. \'93Patio doors\rquote re open.\'94
\par      They ran back down the steps, around the side, wet leaves of shrubbery soaking them. Thurlow felt himself moving in a daze. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Ruth! My God, where are you?}{\insrsid11485343 
 He skidded on the wet bricks of the patio, almost fell, righted himself and was staring down at the red mess that had been Nev Hudson.
\par      Maybeck straightened from a brief examination of the man. \'93Dead all right.\'94 He looked at Thurlow. \'93How long you been here, Doc?\'94
\par      \'93He brought Mrs. Hudson about half an hour ago.\'94 It was the neighbor woman. She came to a stop beside Thurlow. \'93He\rquote s dead isn\rquote t he?\'94 How delighted she sounded!
\par      \'93I \'85 I\rquote ve been waiting in the car,\'94 Thurlow said. \'93That\rquote s right,\'94 the woman said. \'93
We saw them come up. Expected another fight between Hudson there and his Missus. I heard the crash, him falling, but I was in the bathroom. I came right out to the kitchen.\'94
\par      \'93Did you see Mrs. Hudson?\'94 Maybeck asked.
\par      \'93She wasn\rquote t anywhere around. There was a lot of smoke coming out these doors here, though. He may\rquote ve burnt something. He drank a lot, Mr. Hudson. May\rquote ve been trying to open the doors for the smoke and \'85\'94
 She pointed to the body.
\par      Thurlow wet his lips with his tongue. He was afraid to go in that house, he realized. He said: \'93Hadn\rquote t we better look inside. Perhaps \'85\'94
\par      Maybeck met his stare. \'93Yes. Perhaps we had better.\'94
\par      They could hear an ambulance siren now. It wailed to silence out front. The other officer came around the house, said: \'93Ambulance is here, Carl. Where \'85\'94 He saw the body.
\par      \'93Tell \lquote em not to disturb any more than they have to,\'94 Maybeck said. \'93We\rquote re going to look around inside.\'94
\par      The other officer peered suspiciously at Thurlow.
\par      \'93This is Dr. Thurlow,\'94 Maybeck said.
\par      \'93Oh.\'94 The officer turned to direct men in white coming around the house.
\par      Maybeck led the way inside.
\par      Thurlow was caught immediately by the sight of Ruth\rquote s clothing thrown on the bed. His chest felt tight, painful. The neighbor woman had said Ruth wasn\rquote t here, but \'85
\par      Maybeck stooped, peered under the bed. He straightened, sniffed. \'93You smell something, Doc?\'94
\par      Thurlow grew aware that there was an odd odor in the room \endash  almost like burnt insulation.
\par      \'93Almost smells like fire and brimstone,\'94 Maybeck said. \'93Probably }{\i\insrsid11485343 was}{\insrsid11485343  something burned in here.\'94
 He glanced around. There was an empty ashtray on a nightstand. It was clean. He looked in the closet, went into an adjoining bath, returned shaking his head.
\par      Thurlow went out to the hall, looked down it toward the living room. Maybeck brushed past him, led the way into the room. He moved cautiously but with a practiced sureness, peered into the hall closet, behind a davenport. He touched only 
what he had to touch for his investigation.
\par      They progressed through the house this way, Thurlow a hesitant onlooker, fearful of what they might find around the next corner.
\par      Shortly, they were back in the bedroom.
\par      The ambulance doctor stood in the door, smoking. He glanced at Maybeck. \'93Not much we can do here, Carl. Coroner\rquote s on his way.\'94
\par      \'93What\rquote s it look like?\'94 Maybeck asked. \'93Was he pushed?\'94
\par      \'93Looks like he stumbled,\'94 the doctor said. \'93Carpets pushed up there by his feet. Can\rquote t say much about his condition at the time, but there\rquote s a smell of whiskey on him.\'94
\par      Maybeck nodded, taking in the evidence. They could hear the other officer talking outside to the neighbor woman. \'93I don\rquote t know what it was,\'94 she said, her voice rising. \'93It just looked like a big cloud of smoke \'85
 steam, maybe. Or it could\rquote ve been an insect bomb \endash  something white and smoky.\'94
\par      Thurlow turned his back on the door. He found he couldn\rquote t stand the sight of the sprawled body. Ruth wasn\rquote t in the house; no doubt of that.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Insect bomb,}{\insrsid11485343  he thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 White and smoky.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      He recalled the grove then, the hovering }{\i\insrsid11485343 something}{\insrsid11485343  which Ruth had seen as a cloud. Abruptly, he knew what had happened to her. She wouldn\rquote t have disappeared like this without some word to him. }{
\i\insrsid11485343 Something}{\insrsid11485343  had intruded here and taken her away. It would explain the strange smell, the presence of the thing at the grove, the interest of those weird creatures with their glowing eyes.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 But why?}{\insrsid11485343  he asked himself. }{\i\insrsid11485343 What do they want?}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      Then: }{\i\insrsid11485343 This is crazy! She was here when Nev injured himself and she ran for help. She\rquote s at a neighbor\rquote s and she\rquote ll be back any moment.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      And his mind said: }{\i\insrsid11485343 She\rquote s been gone a long time. She saw the crowd and now she\rquote s frightened,}{\insrsid11485343  he told himself.
\par      There was a bustle of activity at the door behind him \endash  the coroner and the police homicide squad. Maybeck came up beside Thurlow, said: \'93Doc, they want you to come down to the station and make a statement.\'94
\par      \'93Yes,\'94 he said. \'93Of course.\'94 Then: \'93That\rquote s the homicide detail. Surely they don\rquote t think \'85\'94
\par      \'93Just routine, Doc,\'94 Maybeck said. \'93You know that. It looks like he was drinking and stumbled, but Mrs. Hudson\rquote s not around. We have to make sure \'85 you know.\'94
\par      \'93I see.\'94 He allowed himself to be led out the door past the still figure that had been Ruth\rquote s husband, past the men with tape measures and cameras and dusting brushes and coldly measuring eyes.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Ruth\rquote s husband \'85 Ruth\rquote s husband \'85}{\insrsid11485343  The label boiled in his mind. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Where is she? Did she break down and run away? But she isn\rquote 
t the type for that. She was under strain, yes, but \'85 What was that cloud the neighbor saw? What was that smell in the room?}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      They were outside then. The rain had stopped, but the shrubbery beside the house still
 drenched them. Porch lights were on across the street. People stood there staring. A white lab truck had been pulled into the driveway beside the house on the other side.
\par      \'93You know, Doc,\'94 Maybeck said. \'93You really shouldn\rquote t drive at night with those dark glasses.\'94
\par      \'93They\rquote re \'85 adjustable,\'94 Thurlow said. \'93Not as dark as they look.\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Ruth! Where are you?}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      He wondered then: }{\i\insrsid11485343 Did she push Nev}{\insrsid11485343  \'85 a }{\i\insrsid11485343 fight? Did she think people would say, \'93Like father, like daughter\'94? Did she run, not wanting to drag me into it?}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93You can ride with us,\'94 Maybeck said. \'93Well bring you back to your car later.\'94
\par      \'93Yes.\'94 He allowed himself to be eased into the back seat. Then: \'93Ruth \'85 Mrs. Hudson \endash  shouldn\rquote t someone be looking for \'85\'94
\par      \'93We\rquote re looking for her, Doc,\'94 Maybeck said. \'93We\rquote ll find her, never you worry.\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Will you find her?}{\insrsid11485343  Thurlow wondered. }{\i\insrsid11485343 What was that thing at the grove-looking at us, trying to manipulate our emotions? It was real. I know it was real. If it wasn\rquote t real, then I
\rquote m insane. And I know I\rquote m not insane.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      He looked down at his feet in the dim shadows behind the seat. They were soaking from the walk across the wet lawn.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Joe Murphey,}{\insrsid11485343  he thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Joe knows he isn\rquote t insane.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par \page 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\qc \li0\ri3389\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin3389\lin0\itap0\pararsid11485343 \b\f1\fs26\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11485343 11
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri3389\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin3389\lin0\itap0\pararsid11485343 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11485343 
\par      RUTH AWOKE ON SOMETHING SOFT-SOOTHING BLUE-gray light. She felt around her: a bed, silky warm covers. She realized she was nude on the bed \'85 but warm \'85
 warm. Above her there was an oval shape full of glittering crystal facets. They changed colors as she watched \endash  green, silver, yellow, blue \'85 They were soothing.
\par      Somewhere she knew there was something urgently demanding her attention, but it was a paradox. Her whole being told her the urgent thing could wait.
\par      She turned her head to the right. There was light from somewhere, but she couldn\rquote t determine its source \endash  a light suddenly full of yellows like remembered sunlight It illuminated an odd room \endash 
 a wall lined with what appeared to be books, a low oval table cluttered with strange golden shapes: cubes, rectangular containers, a domed half-egg. There was a window with night\rquote 
s blue blackness pushing against it. As she watched, the window became metallic white and a face appeared there to look in at her. It was a big face, odd silvery skin with harsh angles and planes, the eyes sunken, penetrating.
\par      Ruth felt she should be frightened by that face, but she couldn\rquote t find the emotional response.
\par      The face disappeared and the window became a view looking down onto a seashore, surf-battered cliffs, dripping rocks, sunlight. Again, there was night\rquote s darkness in the scene and she realized that the framed shape could not be a window.
\par      In front of it stood a wheeled stand holding an unevenly stacked, multibanked shape like a surrealistic typewriter.
\par      A draft touched the left side of her body. It was the first cold thing she had experienced since awakening. She turned toward it, saw an oval door. It stood open, but his leaves were sinking inward to seal it. Just inside the door stood a squat fi
gure in green leotards \endash  the face that had peered in at her. Somewhere within her there was a reaction which said: }{\i\insrsid11485343 \'93This is a loathsome, bowlegged little man.\'94}{\insrsid11485343  The reaction refused to surface.
\par      The creature\rquote s wide, thick-lipped mouth opened. He said: \'93I am Kelexel.\'94 The voice was smooth. It went through her with a tingling sensation.
\par      His eyes traversed her body and she recognized the intense maleness of the look, was surprised to find herself not repelled by it. This room was so warmly soothing, the crystal facets above her moved with such gentle beauty.
\par      \'93I find you very attractive,\'94 Kelexel said. \'93I do not remember ever being attracted thus, with such magnetism.\'94
\par      He walked around the place where she lay.
\par      Ruth followed him with her eyes, watched him manipulate keys on the machine atop the wheeled stand. A delicious tremor ran through her and she began to wonder what it would be like to have this strange creature, this Kelexel, as a lover.
\par      Distantly within her, she sensed a voice screaming: }{\i\insrsid11485343 \'93No! No! No!\'94}{\insrsid11485343  Slowly, the voice dimmed, grew silent.
\par      Kelexel came to stand over her.
\par      \'93I am of the Chem,\'94 he said. \'93Does this mean anything to you?\'94
\par      She shook her head. \'93No.\'94 Her voice was faint.
\par      \'93You have not seen a person such as myself before?\'94 Kelexel asked.
\par      \'93The \'85\'94 She remembered her last few minutes with Nev, the creatures in the doorway. And Andy. She knew there was something she should feel about Andy Thurlow, a deep and abiding emotion, but there was only a sisterly affection. }{
\i\insrsid11485343 Dear Andy}{\insrsid11485343  \'85 }{\i\insrsid11485343 such a sweet, dear person.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93You must answer me,\'94 Kelexel said. There was a deep feeling of power in his voice.
\par      \'93I saw \'85 three \'85 at my house \'85 three who \'85\'94
\par      \'93Ah, the three who brought you here,\'94 Kelexel said. \'93But before that, had you seen any of us before that?\'94
\par      She thought then of the grove, Andy\rquote s description (kind, pleasant Andy) but she hadn\rquote t really seen such creatures there.
\par      \'93No,\'94 she said.
\par      Kelexel hesitated, glanced at the telltales of the manipulator which controlled the native female\rquote s emotions. She was telling the truth. Still, it paid to be cautious.
\par      \'93Then it means nothing to you that I am of the Chem?\'94 he asked.
\par      \'93What \'85 are the Chem?\'94 she asked. A part of her was aroused now to inten
se curiosity. The curiosity struggled up through muddy waves of distraction to sit in her awareness and stare at Kelexel. What a gnome of a creature! What a sweet little gnome.
\par      \'93It shall mean something,\'94 Kelexel said. \'93You are very attractive to me. We Chem are kind to those who please us. You cannot go back to your friends, of course, not ever. There are compensations, however. It\rquote 
s considered an honor to serve the Chem.\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Where is Andy?}{\insrsid11485343  Ruth wondered. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Dear, sweet Andy.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93Very attractive,\'94 Kelexel murmured.
\par      Wondering at the force which moved him, Kelexel extended a knob-knuckled finger, touched her right breast. How resilient and lovely her skin. The finger moved gently up to the nipple, to her neck, her chin, her lips, her hair.
\par      \'93Your eyes are green,\'94 Kelexel said. \'93We Chem are very fond of green.\'94
\par      Ruth swallowed. The caressing movement of Kelexel\rquote s finger filled her with excitement. His face dominated her vision. She reached up, touched his hand. How hard and virile the hand felt. She met the penetrating stare of his brown eyes.
\par      The manipulator\rquote s instruments told Kelexel that the female was now completely subjugated to his will. The realization stirred him. He smiled, exposing square silvery teeth. \'93I will have many questions for you,\'94 he said. \'93Later.\'94

\par      Ruth felt herself sinking into a golden daze. Her attention was locked onto the crystal facets glittering above the bed. Kelexel\rquote s head momentarily obscured the kaleidoscopic movement, then she felt his face pressed b
etween her breasts. The golden daze overwhelmed her with ripples and waves of terrifying ecstasy.
\par      \'93Oh, God,\'94 she whispered. \'93Oh, God. Oh, God.\'94 }{\i\insrsid11485343 How pleasant to be worshiped at such a moment,}{\insrsid11485343  Kelexel thought. It was the most pleasure he had ever experienced from a female.
\par \page 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\qc \li0\ri3389\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin3389\lin0\itap0\pararsid11485343 \b\f1\fs26\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11485343 12
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri3389\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin3389\lin0\itap0\pararsid11485343 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11485343 
\par      RUTH WAS TO LOOK BACK AT THE FIRST FEW CHEM days with a profound astonishment at herself. She grew aware (slowly) that Kelexel was twisting her responses with his 
outlandish devices, but by that time she was addicted to the manipulation. It was only important that Kelexel return to touch her and speak to her and twist her to his desires.
\par      He grew handsome in her sight. It gave her pleasure just to look at his ridged, tubular body. His square face was easy to read in his devotion to her.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 He really loves me,}{\insrsid11485343  she thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 He had Nev killed to get me.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      There was even pleasure in the realization of how utterly helpless she was, how completely subject to Kelexel\rquote 
s slightest whim. She had come to understand by then that the most powerful force on earth was as an anthill when compared to the Chem. By this time she\rquote d been through an educational imprinter, spoke Chem and shiptongue.
\par      The major irritant in her e
xistence at this moment was remembrance of Andy Thurlow. Kelexel had begun to ease back on the strength of the manipulator (her reactions were now sufficiently conditioned) and she could remember Andy with growing clarity. But the fact of her helplessness
 eased her guilt feelings, and Andy came less and less into her thoughts until Kelexel brought her a pantovive.
\par      Kelexel had learned his lesson with the Subi creature. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Activity slows the aging process of a mortal,}{\insrsid11485343  he reminded himself, and he had Ynvic fit Ruth to a pantovive with access to the storyship\rquote 
s Archive Storage system.
\par      The machine was introduced into a corner of her prison-room, a room that already had taken on touches of her personality as Kelexel fitted it to her wishes. A complete bathr
oom-dressing room had been installed adjoining it. Clothing? She had but to ask, Kelexel filled a closet to overflowing. Jewelry, perfumes, choice foods: all came at her bidding.
\par      Kelexel bent to every request, knowing himself to be besotted with her a
nd enjoying every moment of it. When he caught the crewmen exchanging sly looks he smiled to himself. They must all have their pleasure creatures from this planet. He presumed that the native males must be just as exciting to Chem females; it was one of t
he attractions of the place, one of the reasons Fraffin had been so successful here.
\par      Thoughts of his purpose here, his duty, slipped temporarily into the background. He knew the Primacy would understand when he explained and displayed his pleasure crea
ture. After all, what was Time to a Chem? The Investigation would continue, merely a bit slowed \'85 temporarily.
\par      At first, the pantovive frightened Ruth. She shook her head as Kelexel tried to explain its purpose and workings. How it worked; that was easy enough to understand. Why it worked was completely beyond her comprehension.
\par      It was the time she had come to call afternoon, although there was little sense of day and night here in the ship. Afternoon merely meant that Kelexel had come from whatev
er mysterious duties took him away and he would now spend a relaxation and rest period with her. Ruth sat in the fitted contours of the control chair. The room\rquote s lights were tuned to muted yellow and the pantovive filled her attention.
\par      The tiling somewhat fitted her ideas of a machine. The chair nestled part way into it. There were control rings in the chair arms, banks of knobs and keys to left and right, rows of them in coded colors \endash 
 yellows, reds, grays, blacks, greens, blues, a series of orange and white ones looking like a crazy piano. Directly in front and slightly below her extended an oval platform with shimmering lines extending to it from behind the banks of keys.
\par      Kelexel stood behind her, a hand on her shoulder. He felt a rather distant pride showing the wonders of Chem civilization to his new pet \'85 his lovely new pet.
\par      \'93Use voice or key command to select the period and title you wish,\'94 he said. \'93Just as you heard me do. This unit is keyed to your tongue or Chem and will accept and t
ranslate in that mode. This is an editing pantovive and looks complicated, but you may ignore most of the controls. They\rquote re not connected. Remember, you first open the channel to Archives by depressing this key.\'94
 He demonstrated, pushing an orange key on her right \'93Once you\rquote ve selected your story, lock it in thusly.\'94 Again, he demonstrated. \'93Now, you can begin the action.\'94 He depressed a white key at far left.
\par      A mob, its figures reduced to quarter size, formed on the oval stage in front of her. A sense of mad excitement radiated from them through the sensimesh circuits. She sat bolt upright as the emotion swept over her.
\par      \'93You\rquote re feeling the emotion of the creatures on the stage,\'94 Kelexel said. \'93If it\rquote s too strong, reduce it by turning this control to your left.\'94 He moved a dial on the chair arm. The excitement ebbed.
\par      \'93Is it real?\'94 she asked.
\par      The mob was a wash of colors in antique styles \endash  blues, flutters of red, dirty rags on arms and feet, rare glitters of buttons or emblems, tricorne ha
ts on some of the men, red cockades. There was an odd familiarity about the scene that inflicted Ruth with an abrupt feeling of fear. Her body came alive to tom-tom pulse-beats from some fire-flickering past. She sensed driving rhythms of drums within her
self.
\par      \'93Is it real?\'94 she demanded, raising her voice this time.
\par      The mob was running now, feet thudding. Brown feet winked under the long dresses of the women.
\par      \'93Real?\'94 Kelexel asked. \'93What an odd question. It\rquote s \'85 perhaps real in a sense. It happened to natives such as yourself. Real \endash  how strange. That idea has never concerned me.\'94
\par      The mob ran through a park now. Kelexel bent over Ruth\rquote s shoulder, sharing the aura of the sensimesh web. There came a wet smell 
of grass, evergreens with their resin pungency, the sweaty stink of the natives in their exertions. Stage center focused down onto the running legs. They rushed past with a scissoring urgency, across brown paths, grass, disturbing yellow petals in a flowe
r border. Wet wind, busy feet, crushed petals \endash  there was fascination in the movement.
\par      Viewpoint drew back, back, back. A cobbled street, high stone walls came into stage center. The mob raced toward the gray stained walk. Steel flashed in their midst now.
\par      \'93They appear to be storming a citadel,\'94 Kelexel said.
\par      \'93The Bastille,\'94 Ruth whispered. \'93It\rquote s the Bastille.\'94
\par      The recognition held her hypnotized. Here was the actual storming of the Bastille. No matter the present date, here in front of h
er senses it was July 14, 1789, with an organized movement of soldiery sweeping in from the right of the mob. There was the clatter of hooves on stone, gun carriages rumbling, hoarse shouts, curses. The pantovive\rquote 
s translator rendered them faithfully into English because she had asked for it in English.
\par      Ruth gripped the arms of her chair.
\par      Abruptly, Kelexel reached forward, depressed a gray key at her left. The scene faded.
\par      \'93I remember that one well,\'94 he said. \'93One of Fraffin\rquote s more successful productions.\'94 He touched Ruth\rquote s hair. \'93You understand how it works now? Focusing here.\'94 His hand came forward, demonstrating. \'93
Intensity here. It\rquote s quite simple to operate and should provide you many hours of enjoyment\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Enjoyment?}{\insrsid11485343  Ruth thought.
\par      Slowly, she turned, looked up at Kelexel. There was a lost sense of horror in her eyes. }{\i\insrsid11485343 The storming of the Bastille: a Fraffin production!}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      Fraffin\rquote s name was known to her. Kelexel had explained the workings of the storyship.
\par      Until this moment, she hadn\rquote t begun to plumb the implications behind that label.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Storyship.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93Duties call me elsewhere at the moment,\'94 Kelexel said. \'93I\rquote ll leave you to the enjoyment of your pantovive.\'94
\par      \'93I \'85 thought you were going to \'85 stay,\'94 she said. Suddenly, she didn\rquote 
t want to be alone with this machine. She recognized it as an attractive horror, a thing of creative reality that might open a hoard of locked things which she couldn\rquote t face. She felt that the reality of the pantovive might turn into flames and sc
orch her. It was wild, potent, dangerous and she could never control it nor chain her own desires to use it.
\par      Ruth took Kelexel\rquote s hand, forced a smile onto her face. \'93Please stay.\'94
\par      Kelexel hesitated. The invitation in his pet\rquote s face was obvious an
d attractive, but Ynvic, fitting Ruth to the pantovive, had sent a new train of ideas coursing through his mind. He felt the stirrings of responsibility, his duty to the Investigation. Ynvic, the oddly stolid and laconic shipsurgeon, yes-she might just be
 the weak spot in Fraffin\rquote s organization. Kelexel felt the need to test this new avenue.
\par      \'93I\rquote m sorry,\'94 he said, \'93but I must leave. I\rquote ll return as soon as possible.\'94
\par      She saw she couldn\rquote t move him and she dropped back, faced the raw temptation which was this machine. There came the sounds of Kelexel leaving and she was alone with the pantovive.
\par      Presently, she said: \'93Current story in progress, latest production.\'94 She depressed the proper keys.
\par      The oval stage grew almost dark with little star 
glimmers of yellow along its edges. A dot of blue light appeared at the center of focus, flickered, washed white and suddenly there was a man standing at a mirror shaving with a straightedge razor. She gasped with recognition. It was Anthony Bondelli, her
 father\rquote s attorney. She held her breath, trying to still a terrifying sense of eavesdropping.
\par      Bondelli stood with his back to her, his face visible as a reflection in the mirror. It was a deeply tanned face with two wings of smooth black hair sweeping 
back from a high, thin forehead. His nostrils flared above a pencil-line mustache and small mouth. The chin was broad, out of proportion with the narrow features, a fact she had noted before. He radiated a feeling of sleepy complacency.
\par      And indistinct shouting began to dominate the scene. Bondelli paused in his shaving, turned and called through an open doorway on his right: \'93What th\rquote  hell\rquote s all that noise?\'94 He resumed shaving, muttered: \'93Always turn that damn
\rquote  TV too loud.\'94
\par      Ruth grew conscious of odors in the scene \endash  a wet smell of shaving soap and over that the pervasive aroma of frying bacon. The realism held her rigid in her chair. She felt herself breathing quietly lest Bondelli turn and find her spying.

\par      Presently, a woman in a bold Chinese-pattern dressing gown appeared in the bathroom doorway. She held her hands rigidly clasped in front of her bosom:
\par      In a sudden premonition, Ruth wanted to turn off the pantovive, but her muscles refused to obey. She knew the woman in the dressing go
wn: Marge Bondelli, a pleasantly familiar figure with braided blonde hair pinned back from her round face. That face was contorted now in shock.
\par      \'93Tony!\'94 she said.
\par      Bondelli pulled the razor slowly down beneath his jaw, taking care at the pattern of deep creases which ran from the sides of his jaw down along his neck. \'93Whuzzit?\'94
\par      The television still could be heard in the background, a muted sense of conversation. Bondelli pulled the razor slowly upward. A look of glazed shock dominated his wife\rquote s blue eyes. She said: \'93Joe Murphey killed Adele last night!\'94
\par      \'93Ouch!\'94 A thin line of red appeared on Bondelli\rquote s neck. He ignored it, splashed the razor down into the washbasin, whirled.
\par      Ruth felt herself trembling uncontrollably. }{\i\insrsid11485343 It\rquote s just like a movie,}{\insrsid11485343  she told herself. }{\i\insrsid11485343 This isn\rquote t really happening right now.}{\insrsid11485343 
 Pain in her chest made it difficult to breathe. }{\i\insrsid11485343 My mother\rquote s death is a Fraffin Production!}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93That terrible sword,\'94 Bondelli\rquote s wife whispered.
\par      Bondelli thrust himself away from the washbasin, passed his wife, went into the living room and stood before the television.
\par      Ruth felt herself drawn into his wake, a participant, sharing the horror and 
shock which radiated from the Bondellis as the pantovive amplified her own emotions. The television announcer was recapping the story, using still photographs taken by the town\rquote s own newspaper photographer. Ruth stared at the photographs-her mother
\rquote s face, her father\rquote s \'85 diagrams with white X\rquote s and arrows. She willed herself to turn away from this horror, could not move.
\par      Bondelli said: \'93Never mind my breakfast. I\rquote m going down to the office.\'94
\par      \'93You\rquote re bleeding,\'94 his wife said. She had brought a styptic pencil from the bathroom. She dabbed at the cut on his neck. \'93Hold still. It\rquote ll get all over your collar.\'94 She pushed up his chin. \'93Tony \'85
 you stay out of this. You\rquote re not a criminal lawyer.\'94
\par      \'93But I\rquote ve handled Joe\rquote s law ever since he \'85 Ouch! Damn it, Marge, that stings!\'94
\par      \'93Well, you can\rquote t go out bleeding like that,\'94 She finished, put the pencil beside the washbasin. \'93Tony, I\rquote ve a funny feeling \'85 don\rquote t get involved.\'94
\par      \'93I\rquote m Joe\rquote s lawyer. I\rquote m already involved.\'94
\par      Abruptly, Ruth found control of her muscles. She slapped the pantovive shutoff, leaped to her feet, pushing herself away from the machine.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 My mother\rquote s murder something to amuse the Chem!}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      She whirled away, strode toward the bed. The bed repelled her. She turned her back on it. The casual way Kelexel had left her to discover this filled her with terrified anger. Surely he must\rquote ve known she\rquote d find out He didn\rquote 
t care! No, it was worse than that: he hadn\rquote t even thought about it. The whole thing was of no concern to him. It was beneath his attention. It was less than not caring. It was disdain, repellant \'85 hateful \'85
\par      Ruth looked down, found she was wringing her hands. She glanced around the room. There must be some weapon here, anything with which to attack that hideous \'85 Agai
n, she saw the bed. She thought of the golden ecstasy there and suddenly hated her own body. She wanted to tear her flesh. Tears started from her eyes. She strode back and forth, back and forth.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 I\rquote ll kill him!}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      But Kelexel had said the Chem were immune to personal violence. They were immortal. They couldn\rquote t be killed. They never died.
\par      The thought made her feel like an infinitesimal mote, a dust speck, lost, alone, doomed. She threw herself onto the bed, turned onto her back and stared up at th
e crystal glittering of the machine which she knew Kelexel used to control her. There was a link to it under his cloak. She\rquote d seen him working it.
\par      Thought of the machine filled her with an agony of prescience: she knew what she would do when Kelexel r
eturned. She would succumb to him once more. The golden ecstasy would overcome her senses. She would end by fawning on him, begging for his attentions.
\par      \'93Oh, God!\'94 she whispered.
\par      She turned, stared at the pantovive. That machine would contain the entire record of her mother\rquote s death \endash  she knew it. The actual scene was there. She wondered then if she would have the strength to resist asking for that scene.
\par      Something hissed behind her and she whirled on the bed, stared at the door.
\par      Ynvic stood just inside, her bald head glistening in the yellow light. Ruth glared at the gnome figure, the bulge of breasts, the stocky legs in green leotards.
\par      \'93You are troubled,\'94 Ynvic said. Her voice was professionally smooth, soothing. It sounded like the voices of so many doctors she had heard that Ruth wanted to cry out.
\par      \'93What\rquote re you doing here?\'94 Ruth asked.
\par      \'93I am shipsurgeon,\'94 Ynvic said. \'93Most of my job is just being available. You have need of me.\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 They look like caricatures of human beings,}{\insrsid11485343  Ruth thought.
\par      \'93Go away,\'94 she said.
\par      \'93You have problems }{\i\insrsid11485343 and I}{\insrsid11485343  can help you,\'94 Ynvic said.
\par      Ruth sat up. \'93Problems? Why would I have problems?\'94 She knew her voice sounded hysterical.
\par      \'93That fool Kelexel left you with an unrestricted pantovive,\'94 Ynvic said.
\par      Ruth studied the Chem female. Did they have emotions? Was there any way to touch them, hurt them? Even to cause them a pinprick of pain seemed the most desirable thing in the universe.
\par      \'93How do you ugly creatures breed?\'94 Ruth asked.
\par      \'93You hate us, eh?\'94 Ynvic asked.
\par      \'93Are you afraid to answer?\'94 Ruth demanded.
\par      Ynvic shrugged. \'93Essentially, it\rquote s the same as with your kind \endash  except that females are deprived of the reproductive organs at an early stage in their development. We must go to breeding centers, get permission \endash  it\rquote 
s a very tiresome, boring procedure. We manage to enjoy ourselves quite well without the organs.\'94 She advanced to stand a pace from the bed.
\par      \'93But your men prefer my kind,\'94 Ruth said.
\par      Again, Ynvic shrugged. \'93Tastes differ. I\rquote ve had lovers from your planet. Some of them were good, some weren\rquote t. The trouble is, you fade so quickly.\'94
\par      \'93But you enjoy us! We amuse you!\'94
\par      \'93Up to a point,\'94 Ynvic said. \'93Interest waxes and wanes.\'94
\par      \'93Then why do you stay here?\'94
\par      \'93It\rquote s profitable,\'94 Ynvic said. And she noted that the native female already was coming out of the emotional spiral that had trapped her. Resistance, an object to hate \endash  that\rquote s al
l it took. The creatures were so easy to maneuver.
\par      \'93So the Chem like us,\'94 Ruth said. \'93They like stories about us.\'94
\par      \'93You\rquote re an endless pot of self-generating stories,\'94 Ynvic said. \'93An by yourselves you can produce natural sequences of true artisti
c merit. This is, of course, at once a profound source of frustration and requires very delicate handling to capture and reproduce for our audiences. Fraffin\rquote 
s art rests in eliciting those subtle nuances which prick our risibilities, capture our fascinated attention.\'94
\par      \'93You disgust me,\'94 Ruth hissed. \'93You\rquote re not human.\'94
\par      \'93We\rquote re not mortal,\'94 Ynvic said. And she thought: }{\i\insrsid11485343 I wonder if the creature\rquote s already with child? What\rquote ll she do when she learns she\rquote ll bear a Chem?}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93But you hide from us,\'94 Ruth said. She pointed at the ceiling. \'93Up there.\'94
\par      \'93When it suits our purpose,\'94 Ynvic said. \'93We are required to stay concealed now, of course. But it wasn\rquote t always that way. I\rquote ve lived openly with your kind.\'94
\par      Ruth found herself caught by the casual aloofness in Ynvic\rquote s tone. She knew she couldn\rquote t hurt this creature, but had to try.
\par      \'93You\rquote re lying,\'94 Ruth said.
\par      \'93Perhaps. But I\rquote ll tell you that I once was the God Ea, striking terror into captive Jews \'85 in Sumeria a while back. It was harmless fun setting up religious patterns among you.\'94
\par      \'93You posed as a god?\'94 Ruth shuddered. She knew the words were true. They were spoken with too little effort. They meant so little to the speaker.
\par      \'93I\rquote ve also been a circus freak,\'94 Ynvic said. \'93I\rquote ve worked in many epics. Sometimes I enjoy the illusion of antiquity.\'94
\par      Ruth shook her head, unable to speak.
\par      \'93You don\rquote t understand,\'94 Ynvic said. \'93How could you? If s }{\i\insrsid11485343 our}{\insrsid11485343  problem, you see? When the future\rquote s infinite, you have no antiquities. You\rquote re always c
aught up in the Forever-Now. When you think you\rquote ve come to terms with the fact that your past is unimportant, then the future becomes unimportant. That can be fatal. The storyships protect us from this fatality.\'94
\par      \'93You \'85 spy on us for \'85\'94
\par      \'93Infinite past, infinite future, infinite present,\'94 Ynvic said. She bent her head, liking the sound of the words. \'93Yes, we have these. Your lives are but brief bursts and your entire past little more \endash 
 yet we Chem gain from you the explicit feeling of something ancient \'85 an important past. You give us this, do you understand?\'94
\par      Again, Ruth shook her head. The words seemed to have meaning, but she felt she was getting only part of their sense.
\par      \'93It\rquote s something we can\rquote t get from Tiggywaugh\rquote s web,\'94 Ynvic said. \'93Perhaps it\rquote s something our immortality denies us. The web makes the Chem into one organism \endash 
 I can feel the life of each of the others, billions upon billions of Chem. This is \'85 old, but it\rquote s not ancient\'94
\par      Ruth swallowed. The creature was rambling. But the conversation was providing a time to recover, and Ruth felt forming within her a place of resistance, a core place where she could retreat and in which she was safe from the Chem \'85
 no matter what they did to her. She knew she\rquote d succumb to Kelexel still, that this Ynvic creature even now was doing something to shade the Chem captive\rquote s emotional responses. But the core place was there, growing, imparting purpose.
\par      \'93No matter,\'94 Ynvic said. \'93I\rquote ve come to examine you.\'94 She advanced to the edge of the bed.
\par      Ruth inhaled a deep, trembling breath. \'93You were watching me,\'94 she said. \'93At the machine. Does Kelexel know?\'94
\par      Ynvic became very still. How did the stupid native know to ask such a penetrating question?
\par      Ruth sensed the opening in Ynvic\rquote s guard, said: \'93You speak of infinity, of epics, but you use your \'85 whatever \'85\'94 She made a sweeping gesture to take in the storyship \'93 \'85 to \'85 record a \'85 killing \'85\'94
\par      \'93Indeed!\'94 Ynvic said. \'93You will tell me now why Kelexel is asking for me out in the ship.\'94
\par      The crystal facets above the bed began emitting a blue glow. Ruth felt her will melting. She shook her head. \'93I \'85 don\rquote t \'85\'94
\par      \'93You will tell me!\'94 The Chem female\rquote s face was a round mask of fury, the bald head glistening wetly silver.
\par      \'93I \'85 don\rquote t \'85 know,\'94 Ruth whispered.
\par      \'93He was a fool to give you an unrestricted pantovive and we were fools to go along with it,\'94 Ynvic said. She passed a hand across her thick lips. \'93What do you understand of such things?\'94
\par      Ruth felt the pressure relaxing, took a deep breath. The core place of retreat was still there. \'93It was my mother, my mother you killed,\'94 she muttered.
\par      \'93We killed?\'94
\par      \'93You make people do what you want them to do,\'94 Ruth said.
\par      \'93People!\'94 Ynvic sneered. Ruth\rquote s answers betrayed only the shallowest knowledge of Chem affairs. There was danger in the creature, though. She might yet excite Kelexel\rquote s interests into the wrong paths too soon.
\par      Ynvic put a hand on Ruth\rquote s abdomen, glanced at the manipulator over the bed. The pattern o
f the lambent blue glow shifted in a way that made her smile. This poor creature already was impregnated. What a strange way to bear offspring! But how lovely and subtle a way to trap a snooper from the Primacy.
\par      The fact of Ruth\rquote s pregnancy imparted a
n odd feeling of disquiet to Ynvic. She withdrew her hand, grew aware of the characteristic musky scent of the native female. What gross mammary glands the creature had! Yet, her cheeks were indrawn as though from undernourishment. She wore a loose flowin
g gown that reminded Ynvic of Grecian garments. Now there\rquote d been an interesting culture, but brief, so brief \'85 everything so brief.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 But she\rquote s pregnant,}{\insrsid11485343  Ynvic thought, }{\i\insrsid11485343 I}{\insrsid11485343  }{\i\insrsid11485343 should be delighted. Why does it bother me? What have I overlooked?}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      For no reason she could explain, four lines from a Chem drinking song poured through Ynvic\rquote s mind then.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 \'93In the long-long-long ago}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 When each of us was young,}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 We heard the music of the flesh}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 And the singing of a sun}{\insrsid11485343 \'85\'94
\par 
\par      Ynvic shook her head sharply. The song was meaningless. It was good only for its rhythms, a plaything series of noises, another toy.
\par      But what had it meant \'85 once?
\par      Over the bed, the manipulator\rquote s lenses sank back through green and stopped in a soft pastel fed.
\par      \'93Rest, little innocent,\'94 Ynvic said. She placed a strangely gentle hand on Ruth\rquote s bare arm. \'93Rest and be attractive for Kelexel\rquote s return.\'94
\par \page 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\qc \li0\ri3389\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin3389\lin0\itap0\pararsid11485343 \b\f1\fs26\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11485343 13
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri3389\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin3389\lin0\itap0\pararsid11485343 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93The simple truth of the matter is that things got too much for her and she ran away,\'94 Bondelli said. He stared across at Andy Thurlow, wondering at the odd, haggard look of the man.
\par      They sat in Bondelli\rquote s law office, a place of polished wood and leather-bound books aligned precisely behind glass covers, a place of framed diplomas and autographed photos of important people. It was early afternoon, a sunny day.
\par      Thurlow was bent over, elbows on knees, hands clasped tightly together. }{\i\insrsid11485343 I don\rquote t dare tell him my real suspicions,}{\insrsid11485343  he thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 I}{\insrsid11485343  }{\i\insrsid11485343 don\rquote 
t dare}{\insrsid11485343  \'85 }{\i\insrsid11485343 I}{\insrsid11485343  }{\i\insrsid11485343 don\rquote t dare.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93Who\rquote d want to harm her or take her away?\'94 Bondelli asked. \'93She\rquote s gone to friends, perhaps up in \lquote Frisco. It\rquote s something simple as that. We\rquote ll hear from her when she\rquote s gotten over her funk.\'94

\par      \'93That\rquote s what the police think,\'94 Thurlow said. \'93They\rquote ve completely cleared her of any complicity in Nev\rquote s death \'85 the physical evidence \'85\'94
\par      \'93Then the best thing we can do is get down to the necessities of Joe\rquote s case. Ruth\rquote ll come home when she\rquote s ready.\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Will she?}{\insrsid11485343  Thurlow asked himself. He couldn\rquote t shake off the feeling t
hat he was living in a nightmare. Had he really been with Ruth at the grove? Was Nev really dead in that weird accident? Had Ruth run off? If so, where?
\par      \'93We\rquote re going to have to dive directly into the legal definition of insanity,\'94 Bondelli said. \'93Nature and consequences. Justice requires \'85\'94
\par      \'93Justice?\'94 Thurlow stared at the man. Bondelli had turned in his chair, revealing his profile, the mouth thinned to a shadowline beneath the mustache.
\par      \'93Justice,\'94 Bondelli repeated. He swiveled to look at T
hurlow. Bondelli prided himself upon his judgment of men and he studied Thurlow now. The psychologist appeared to be coming out of his blue funk. No question why the man was so shaken, of course. Still in love with Ruth Murphey \'85
 Hudson. Terrible mess, but it\rquote d shake down. Always did. That was one thing you learned from the law; it all came out in court.
\par      Thurlow took a deep breath, reminded himself that Bondelli wasn\rquote t a criminal lawyer. \'93We ought to be more interested in realism,\'94 he said. There was an undertone of wry cynicism in his voice. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Justice!}{
\insrsid11485343  \'93This legal definition of insanity business is a lot of crap. The important thing is that the community wants the man executed \endash  and our benighted D.A., Mr. Paret, is running for reelection.\'94
\par      Bondelli was shocked. \'93The law\rquote s above that!\'94 He shook his head. \'93And the whole community isn\rquote t against Joe. Why should they be?\'94
\par      Thurlow spoke as though to an unruly child: \'93Because they\rquote re afraid of him, naturally.\'94
\par      Bondelli permitted himself a glance out the window beside his desk \endash 
 familiar rooftops, distant greenery, a bit of foggy smoke beginning to cloud the air above the adjoining building. The smoke curled and swirled, creating an interesting pattern against the view. He returned his attention to Thurlow, said: \'93
The question is, how can an insane man know the nature and consequences of his act? What I want from you is to explode that nature and consequences thing.\'94
\par      Thurlow removed his glasses, glances at them, returned them to his nose. They made the shadows stand out sharply in the room. \'93An insane man doesn\rquote t think about consequences,\'94
 he said. And he wondered if he was really going to let himself take part in Bondelli\rquote s mad plan for defense of Joe Murphey.
\par      \'93I\rquote m taking the position,\'94 Bondelli said, \'93that the original views of Lord Cottenham support our defense.\'94 Bondelli turned, pulled a thick book out of a cabinet behind him, put the book on the desk and opened it to a marker.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 He can\rquote t be serious,}{\insrsid11485343  Thurlow thought.
\par      \'93Here\rquote s Lord Cottenham,\'94 Bondelli said. \'93
It is wrong to listen to any doctrine which proposes the punishment of persons laboring under insane delusions. It is inconceivable that the man who was incapable of judging between right and wrong, of knowing whether an act we
re good or bad, ought to be made accountable for his actions; such a man has not that within him which forms the foundation of accountability, either from a moral or a legal point of view. I consider it strange that any person should labor under a delusio
n and yet be aware that it was a delusion: in fact, if he were aware of his state, which could be no delusion.\'94
\par      Bondelli closed the book with a snap, stared at Thurlow as though to say: }{\i\insrsid11485343 \'93There! It\rquote s all solved!\'94}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      Thurlow cleared his throat It was increasingly obvious that Bondelli lived in a cloud world. \'93That\rquote s all very true, of course,\'94 Thurlow said. \'93But isn\rquote t it possible that even if our esteemed district attorney suspects \endash 
 or even }{\i\insrsid11485343 believes \endash  Joe}{\insrsid11485343  Murphey to be insane, he\rquote ll think it better to execute such a man than to put him in an institution?\'94
\par      \'93Good heavens! Why?\'94
\par      \'93The doors of mental hospitals sometimes open,\'94 Thurlow said. \'93Paret was elected to protect this community \endash  even from itself.\'94
\par      \'93But Murphey\rquote s obviously insane!\'94
\par      \'93You aren\rquote t listening to me,\'94 Thurlow said. \'93Certainly he\rquote s insane. That\rquote s what people are afraid of.\'94
\par      \'93But shouldn\rquote t psychology \'85\'94
\par      \'93Psychology!\'94 Thurlow snapped.
\par      Bondelli stared at Thurlow in shocked silence.
\par      \'93Psychology\rquote s just the modern superstition,\'94 Thurlow said. \'93It can\rquote t do a damned thing for people like Joe. I\rquote m sorry but that\rquote s the truth and it\rquote ll hurt less to have that out right now.\'94
\par      \'93If this is what you told Ruth Murphey, no wonder she ran away,\'94 Bondelli said.
\par      \'93I told Ruth I\rquote d help any way I can.\'94
\par      \'93You have a strange way of showing it.\'94
\par      \'93Look,\'94 Thurlow said. \'93We\rquote ve a community up in aims, fearful, excited. Murphey\rquote s the focus for their hidden guilt feelings. They want him dead. They want this psychological pressure taken off them. You can\rquote 
t psychoanalyze a whole community.\'94
\par      Bondelli began tapping a finger impatiently on the desk. \'93Will you or will you not help me prove Joe\rquote s insane?\'94
\par      \'93I\rquote ll do everything I can, but you know Joe\rquote s going to resist that form of defense, don\rquote t you?\'94
\par      \'93Know it!\'94 Bondelli leaned forward, arms on his desk. \'93The damn\rquote  fool blows his top at the slightest hint I want him to plead insanity. He keeps harping on the unwritten law!\'94
\par      \'93Those stupid accusations against Adele,\'94 Thurlow said. \'93Joe\rquote s going to make it very difficult to prove him insane.\'94
\par      \'93A sane man would fake insanity now if only to save his life,\'94 Bondelli said.
\par      \'93Keep that very clearly in mind,\'94 Thurlow said. \'93Joe can\rquote t in any way entertain the idea that he\rquote s insane. To admit that \endash  even as a possibility \endash  or as a necessary pretense, he\rquote 
d have to face the fact that his violent act could\rquote ve been a useless, senseless thing. The enormity of such an admission would be far worse than insanity. Insanity\rquote s much preferable.\'94
\par      \'93Can you get that across to a jury?\'94 Bondelli asked. He spoke in a hushed tone.
\par      \'93That Murphey considers it safer to play sane?\'94
\par      \'93Yes.\'94
\par      Thurlow shrugged. \'93Who knows what a jury will believe? Joe may be a hollow shell, but that\rquote 
s one helluva strong shell. Nothing contradictory can be permitted to enter it. Every fiber of him is concentrated on the necessity to appear normal, to maintain the illusion of sanity \endash  for himself as well as for others. Death is far 
preferable to that other admission \'85 Oscar Wilde concurring.\'94
\par      \'93\lquote Each man kills the thing he loves,\rquote \'94 Bondelli whispered. Again, he turned, looked out the window. The smoky pattern was still there. He wondered idly if workmen were tarring a roof somewhere below him.
\par      Thurlow looked down at Bondelli\rquote s tapping finger. \'93The trouble with you, Tony,\'94 he said, \'93is you\rquote re one of G. K. Chesterton\rquote s terrible children. You\rquote 
re innocent and love justice. Most of us are wicked and naturally prefer mercy.\'94
\par      As though he hadn\rquote t heard, Bondelli said: \'93We need something simple and elegant to show the jury. They have to be dumbfounded with the realization that \'85\'94 He broke off, stared at Thurlow. \'93And your prediction of Joe\rquote 
s trouble fits the bill precisely.\'94
\par      \'93Too technical,\'94 Thurlow said. \'93A jury won\rquote t sit still for it, won\rquote t understand it. Juries don\rquote t hear what they don\rquote t understand. Their minds wander. They think about dress patterns, bugs in the rose garden, what
\rquote s for lunch, where to spend a vacation.\'94
\par      \'93You did predict it, didn\rquote t you? Ruth did report your words correctly?\'94
\par      \'93The psychotic break, yes, I predicted it.\'94 The words were almost a sigh. \'93Tony, haven\rquote t you focused on what I\rquote ve been telling you? This was a sex crime \endash  the sword, the violence \'85\'94
\par      \'93Is he insane?\'94
\par      \'93Of course he\rquote s insane!\'94
\par      \'93In the legal sense?\'94
\par      \'93In every sense.\'94
\par      \'93Well, then there\rquote s legal precedent for \'85\'94
\par      \'93Psychological precedent\rquote s more important.\'94
\par      \'93What?\'94
\par      \'93Tony, if there\rquote s one thing I\rquote ve learned since becoming court psychologist here, it\rquote s that juries, spend far more energy trying to discover the judge\rquote 
s opinion than they do following what the opposing lawyers are presenting. Juries have a purely disgusting respect for the wisdom of judges. Any judge we get is going to be a member of this community. The community wants Joe put away permanently \endash 
 dead. We can prove him insane until we\rquote re blue in the face. None of these good people will face our proof consciously, even while they\rquote re accepting it unconsciously. In fact, as we prove Joe insane, we\rquote re condemning him.\'94
\par      \'93Are you trying to tell me you can\rquote t get up on that stand and say you predicted Joe\rquote s insanity but the authorities refused to act because the man was too important a member of the community?\'94
\par      \'93Of course I can\rquote t.\'94
\par      \'93You think they won\rquote t believe you?\'94
\par      \'93It doesn\rquote t make any difference whether they believe me!\'94
\par      \'93But if they believe \'85\'94
\par      \'93I\rquote ll tell you what they\rquote ll believe, Tony, and I\rquote m surprised that you, an attorney, don\rquote t realize this. They\rquote ll believe that Paret has proof of Adele\rquote 
s unfaithfulness, but that some legal technicality, legal trickery on your part, prohibits introduction of the dirty details. They\rquote ll believe this because it\rquote s the easiest thing to believe. No grandstand play on my part will change that\'94

\par      \'93You\rquote re saying we don\rquote t stand a chance?\'94
\par      Thurlow shrugged. \'93Not if it goes to trial right away. If you can delay the trial or get a change of venue \'85\'94
\par      Bondelli swiveled his chair, stared through the smoke pattern outside his window. \'93I find it very hard to believe that reasonable, logical human beings \'85\'94
\par      \'93What\rquote s reasonable or logical about a jury?\'94 Thurlow asked.
\par      A flush of anger began at Bondelli\rquote s collar, spread upward across his cheeks, into his hair. He turned, glared at Thurlow. \'93
Do you know what I think, Andy? I think the fact that Ruth ran out on you has colored your attitude toward her father. You say you\rquote ll help, but every word you \'85\'94
\par      \'93That\rquote ll be enough of that,\'94 Thurlow interrupted, his voice low, flat. He took two deep breaths. \'93Tell me something, Tony. Why\rquote re you taking this case? You\rquote re not a criminal lawyer.\'94
\par      Bondelli passed a hand across his eyes. Slowly, the flush left his skin. He glanced at Thurlow. \'93Sorry, Andy.\'94
\par      \'93That\rquote s all right. Can you answer the question? Do you know why you\rquote re taking this case?\'94
\par      Bondelli sighed, shrugged. \'93When the story broke that I was representing him, two of my most important clients called and said they\rquote d take their business elsewhere if I didn\rquote t pull out.\'94
\par      \'93That\rquote s why you\rquote re defending Joe?\'94
\par      \'93He has to have the best defense possible.\'94
\par      \'93You\rquote re the best?\'94
\par      \'93I wanted to go up to San Francisco, get Belli or someone of that stature, but Joe refuses. He thinks it\rquote s going to be easy \endash  the goddamn\rquote  unwritten law.\'94
\par      \'93And that leaves you.\'94
\par      \'93In this city, yes.\'94 Bondelli extended his arms onto the desk, clasped his hands into fists. \'93You know, I don\rquote t see the problem the same way you do, not at all. I think our biggest job\rquote s to prove he isn\rquote 
t faking insanity.\'94
\par      Thurlow took off his glasses, rubbed his eyes. They were beginning to ache. He\rquote d been reading too much today, he thought. He said: \'93Well, you have a point there, Tony. If a person with de
lusions learns to keep quiet about them, you can have one helluva time getting him to act on those delusions where people will see him and understand. Exposing faked insanity is easy compared with the problems of detecting a concealed psychosis, but the p
ublic generally doesn\rquote t understand this.\'94
\par      \'93I see a four-pronged attack,\'94 Bondelli said. \'93There\rquote re four common essentials with insane killers.\'94
\par      Thurlow started to say something, thought better of it as Bondelli raised a hand, four fingers extended.
\par      \'93First,\'94 Bondelli said, \'93did the victim\rquote s death profit the killer. Psychopaths usually kill strangers or persons close to them. You see, I\rquote ve been doing my homework in your field, too.\'94
\par      \'93I see that,\'94 Thurlow said.
\par      \'93And Adele had no insurance,\'94 Bondelli said. He lowered one finger. \'93Next, was the murder carefully planned?\'94 Another finger came down. \'93Psychopaths don\rquote 
t plan their crimes. Either they leave escape to chance, or they make it ridiculously easy for the police to catch them. Joe practically advertised his presence in that office.\'94
\par      Thurlow nodded and began to wonder if Bondelli could be right. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Am I unconsciously attacking Ruth through her father? Where the hell did she go?}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93Third,\'94 Bondelli said, \'93was a great deal more violence than necessary used in the crime? Deranged people continue an attack beyond all reason. There\rquote s no doubt the first thrust of that sword would\rquote ve killed Adele.\'94
 A third finger came down.
\par      Thurlow returned his glasses to his nose, stared at Bondelli. The attorney was so intent, so sure of himself. Was it possible?
\par      \'93Fourth,\'94 Bondelli said, \'93was the killing accomplished with an improvised weapon? Persons who plan set themselves up with a lethal weapon beforehand. A psychopath grabs anything at hand \endash 
 a cleaver, a club, a rock, a piece of furniture.\'94 The fourth finger came down and Bondelli lowered a fist to the desk. \'93That damned sword hung on Joe\rquote s study wall for as long as I can remember.\'94
\par      \'93It all sounds so easy,\'94 Thurlow said. \'93But what\rquote s the prosecution gong to be doing all this time?\'94
\par      \'93Oh, they\rquote ll have their experts, naturally.\'94
\par      \'93Whelye among them,\'94 Thurlow said.
\par      \'93Your boss at the hospital?\'94
\par      \'93The same.\'94
\par      \'93Does \'85 that put you \'85 on a spot?\'94
\par      \'93That doesn\rquote t bother me, Tony. He\rquote s just another part of the community syndrome. It\rquote s \'85 it\rquote s the whole mad mess.\'94 Thurlow looked down at his hands. \'93People are going to say Joe\rquote s better off dead \endash 
 even if he is insane. And the prosecution experts you kiss off with a wave of the hand, they\rquote re going to be saying things the community }{\i\insrsid11485343 wants}{\insrsid11485343  to hear. Everything the judge says is likely to be interpreted 
\'85\'94
\par      \'93I\rquote m sure we can get an impartial judge.\'94
\par      \'93Yes \'85 no doubt. But judges invariably say the question to be determined is whether at the time of the crime the accused had not the use of that part of his understanding which allowed him to know he was doing a wrong and wicked act. That }{
\i\insrsid11485343 part,}{\insrsid11485343  Tony; as though the mind could be divided into compartments, part of it sane, part insane. Impossible! The mind\rquote s a unified thing. A person can\rquote 
t be mentally and emotionally diseased in some fictitious part without infecting the total personality. A knowledge of right and wrong \endash  the ability to choose between God and the devil \endash 
 is profoundly different from the knowledge that two plus two equals four. To make the judgment of good and evil requires an intact personality.\'94
\par      Thurlow looked up, studied Bondelli.
\par      The attorney was staring out the window, lips pursed in thought. He obviously hadn\rquote t been listening.
\par      Thurlow turned toward the window. He felt sick with frustration and despair, Ruth }{\i\insrsid11485343 had}{\insrsid11485343  run away. That was the only logical, sane, reasonable explanation. Her father was doomed, no matter \'85 Thurlow\rquote 
s muscles locked into frozen, glaring suspense. He stared out the window.
\par      Some ten feet out, poised in the air, hovering, was an object \'85 a dome-shaped object with a neat round opening that faced Bondelli\rquote s window. Behind the opening, figures moved.
\par      Thurlow opened his mouth to speak, found he had no voice. He lurched out of his chair, groped his way around the desk away from the window.
\par      \'93Andy, is something wrong?\'94 Bondelli asked. The attorney swiveled back, stared up at Thurlow.
\par      Thurlow leaned on the desk facing the window. He looked right into the round opening in the hovering object. There were eyes inside, glowing eyes. A slender tube protruded from the opening. Painful, constricting force pressed in on Thurlow\rquote 
s chest. He had to fight for each breath.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 My God! They\rquote re trying to kill me!}{\insrsid11485343  he thought.
\par      Waves of unconsciousness surged over his mind, receded, returned. His chest was a great gasping region of fire. Dimly, he saw the edge of the desk surge upward past his eyes. Something h
it a carpeted floor and he realized with fading consciousness that it was his head. He tried to push himself up, collapsed.
\par      \'93Andy! Andy! What\rquote s wrong? Andy!\'94 It was Bondelli\rquote s voice. The voice bounced and receded in a wavering, ringing echo box. \'93Andy \'85 Andy \'85 And \'85\'94
\par      Bondelli stood up \endash  from a quick examination of Thurlow, shouted for his secretary: \'93Mrs. Wilson! Call an ambulance! I think Dr. Thurlow\rquote s had a heart attack.\'94
\par \page 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\qc \li0\ri3389\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin3389\lin0\itap0\pararsid11485343 \b\f1\fs26\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11485343 14
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri3389\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin3389\lin0\itap0\pararsid11485343 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11485343 
\par      I MUST NOT GROW TO LIKE THIS LIFE, KELEXEL TOLD himself. }{\i\insrsid11485343 I have a new pet, yes, but I also have a duty. A moment will come when I must leave, taking my pet, abandoning all the other pleasures of this place.}{\insrsid11485343 

\par      He sat in Ruth\rquote s private quarters, a bowl of native liquor on a low table between them. Ruth appeared oddly
 pensive, quiet. The manipulator had required quite heavy pressure to bring her into a responsive mood. This bothered Kelexel. She had been coming along so nicely, taking the training with an ease which delighted him. Now \endash  relapse \'85
 and just after he had given her such a pleasant toy, the pantovive.
\par      There were fresh flowers on the table beside the liquor. Roses, they were called. Red roses. The liquor had been sent along by Ynvic. Its aroma, a touch on the palate, surprised and delighted Kelexel. Subt
le esthers danced on his tongue. The heady central substance required constant readjustment of his metabolism. He wondered how Ruth adapted to the stuff. She was taking an inordinate amount of it.
\par      In spite of the distracting effort at keeping his metabolism in balance, Kelexel found the total experience pleasant. The senses came alert: boredom retreated.
\par      Ynvic had said the liquor was a wine from a sunny valley \'93 \'85 up there east of us.\'94 It was a native product, lovely stuff.
\par      Kelexel looked up at the silvery gray curve of ceiling, noted the gravity anomaly lines like golden chords above the manipulator. The room was taking on a pleasant air of familiarity with its new touches denoting occupancy by his delightful pet.

\par      \'93Have you noticed how many of the ship people wear native clothing?\'94 Kelexel asked.
\par      \'93How could I?\'94 Ruth asked. (How fuzzy her voice sounded.) \'93When do I ever get out of here?\'94
\par      \'93Yes, of course,\'94 Kelexel agreed. \'93I was thinking I might try some of your clothing myself. Ynvic tells me that the garments of some of your larger children often fit the Chem with very slight alteration. Ynvic calls that a fringe benefit.
\'94
\par      Ruth refilled her glass from the wine bowl, drank deeply.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 The little pig of a gnome!}{\insrsid11485343  she thought }{\i\insrsid11485343 The dirty little troll!}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      Kelexel had been drinking from a flagon. He dipped it into the bowl, raised it dripping amber. \'93Good drink, delightful foods, comfortable clothing \endash  all this and great enjoyment, amusement. Who could grow bored here?\'94
\par      \'93Yes, indeed,\'94 Ruth muttered. \'93Who c\rquote d grow bored?\'94 Again, she drank deeply of the wine.
\par      Kelexel took another sip from his flagon, adjusted his metabolism. Ruth\rquote s voice sounded so strange. He noted the manipulator\rquote s setting, wondered if he should apply a bit more pressure. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Could it be the liquor?}{
\insrsid11485343  he asked himself.
\par      \'93Did you enjoy yourself with the pantovive?\'94 he asked.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 The dirty, evil little troll!}{\insrsid11485343  she thought \'93\rquote S great fun,\'94 she sneered. \'93Why\rquote ntch go play with it y\rquote rself f\rquote r awhile?\'94
\par      \'93Lords of Preservation!\'94 Kelexel muttered. He had just realized that the liquor was inhibiting Ruth\rquote s higher centers. Her head rolled crazily on her neck. She spilled part of her drink.
\par      Kelexel reached over, took the glass from her, placed it gently on the table. She either was incapable or had never learned how to adjust her metabolism, he realized.
\par      \'93Don\rquote tcha like th\rquote  stories?\'94 Ruth asked.
\par      Kelexel began to remember, from Fraffin productions, the native problems involving various liquors. It was all true, then. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Real,}{\insrsid11485343  as Ruth would say.
\par      \'93\rquote S a dirty world,\'94 she said. \'93Y\rquote  s\rquote pose we\rquote re part of a story? They shootin\rquote  us with their damn cameras?\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 What a hideous idea,}{\insrsid11485343  Kelexel thought. But there was a strange sense of verity in her words. The dialogue carried some of the surface characteristics of a Fraffin story.
\par      In this moment, Kelexel had to remind himself that creatures such as Ruth had lived long (by their standards) in dreams that 
Fraffin wove. Not exactly dreams, though, because Chem spectators, could enter the story world, too. In a sudden burst of insight, Kelexel realized he had entered the world of violence and emotion which Fraffin had created. Entering that world, he had bee
n corrupted. To share the native delusions if only for a moment was to be enslaved by the need for more such corruption.
\par      Kelexel wanted to tear himself away from this room, renounce his new pet, return only to his duty. But he knew he couldn\rquote t do that. Knowing this, he wondered what particular thing had trapped him. No answer came to his searching awareness.

\par      He stared at Ruth.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 These natives are a dangerous flame,}{\insrsid11485343  he thought }{\i\insrsid11485343 We don\rquote t own them! We\rquote re their slaves!}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      Now, his suspicions were fully aroused. He stared around the room. What was it? What was wrong here?
\par      He found nothing of this moment and this place upon which he could focus his educated suspicions. This of itself touched a deep chord of anger and fear in him. He felt that he was being played with, led about Was Fraffin playing with him? The ship
\rquote s people had suborned four previous Investigators of the Bureau. How? What plans had they for his own person? Surely they knew by now he was no ordinary visitor. But what could they possibly do?
\par      Not violence, certainly.
\par      Ruth began to cry, the sobs shaking her shoulders. \'93All alone,\'94 she muttered. \'93All alone.\'94
\par      Was it the native female? Kelexel wondered. Was she the bait in the trap?
\par      There could be no certainty in a se
cret battle of this land. You contended, one against the other, but every struggle occurred beneath a deceptively calm surface, hidden behind polite words and civilities and ritual behavior. The struggle went on and on within an intimate arena where no vi
olence could be permitted.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 How can they hope to win?}{\insrsid11485343  Kelexel asked himself.
\par      Even if they bested him, they must know there\rquote d be other Kelexels. It would never end.
\par      Never.
\par      Never.
\par      Awareness of an endless future broke like waves across the reef of his mind. On this path lay the Chem madness, Kelexel knew. He drew back from such thoughts.
\par      Ruth got up, stood looking down at him unsteadily.
\par      Savagely, Kelexel adjusted the manipulator. Ruth stiffened. The skin rippled on her cheeks and forearms. Her eyes glazed over. Abruptly, she turned, ran for the water basin in the corner. She leaned on it, retching.
\par      Presently, she returned to her chair, moving as though pulled by strings. Distantly in her mind, a tiny kernel of awareness cried out: }{\i\insrsid11485343 \'93This is not you doing these things! These things are being done to you.\'94}{
\insrsid11485343 
\par      Kelexel held up his flagon, said: \'93With such things as this your world fascinates and attracts us. Tell me, with what does your world repel?\'94
\par      \'93It isn\rquote t a world,\'94 she said, her voice shaky. \'93It\rquote s a cage. This is your own private zoo.\'94
\par      \'93Ahhh, hmmm,\'94 Kelexel said. He sipped at his drink, but it had lost its savor. He put the flagon on the table. There wer
e wet circles there where he had put the flagon before. He looked at them. The female was becoming resistant, obstinate. How could that be? Only the Chem and an occasional mutant were immune to such pressures. Even the Chem wouldn\rquote 
t be completely immune without Tiggywaugh\rquote s web and the special treatment they received at birth.
\par      Again, he studied Ruth.
\par      She returned his stare defiantly.
\par      \'93Your lives are so short,\'94 Kelexel said. \'93Your past is so short \endash  yet one gains the definite feeling of something ancient from you. How can that be?\'94
\par      \'93Score one for our side,\'94 Ruth said. She could feel her emotions being adjusted, soothed. It happened with an uncanny rapidity. Insane sobriety invaded her mind.
\par      \'93Please stop changing me,\'94 she whispered.
\par      And she wondered: }{\i\insrsid11485343 Was that the right thing to say then?}{\insrsid11485343 
 But she felt she had to disagree with the creature now, even risk making him angry. She had to oppose him-subtly, definitely. It was either that or lose her sanity in this wasteland of unreason. Sh
e could no longer remain passive, fencing in a mental world where the Chem could not come.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Stop changing her?}{\insrsid11485343  Kelexel wondered.
\par      There lay a kernel of op
position in that whispered cry and he recognized it. Thus the barbarian always spoke to the civilizer. Instantly alerted, he became at once tile true cynic of the Federation, the loyal servant of the Primacy. The native female should not be }{
\i\insrsid11485343 able}{\insrsid11485343  to oppose him.
\par      \'93How do I change you?\'94 he asked.
\par      \'93I wish I knew,\'94 she said. \'93All I know is you think I\rquote m stupid and don\rquote t realize what you\rquote re doing.\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Has Fraffin trained this creature?}{\insrsid11485343  Kelexel wondered. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Was she prepared for me?}{\insrsid11485343  He remembered his first interview with Fraffin, the sense of menace.
\par      \'93What has Fraffin told you to do?\'94 he demanded.
\par      \'93Fraffin?\'94 Her face showed blank puzzlement. }{\i\insrsid11485343 What had the storyship\rquote s director to do with her?}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93I won\rquote t betray you,\'94 Kelexel said.
\par      She wet her lips with her tongue. Nothing the Chem did or said made any sense. The only thing she really understood was then- power.
\par      \'93If Fraffin\rquote s done anything illegal with you creatures I must know about it,\'94 Kelexel said. \'93I will not be denied. I }{\i\insrsid11485343 will}{\insrsid11485343  know about it.\'94
\par      She shook her head.
\par      \'93As much as }{\i\insrsid11485343 can}{\insrsid11485343  be known of Fraffin, }{\i\insrsid11485343 that I}{\insrsid11485343  know,\'94 Kelexel said. \'93
You were little more than the rawest sort of animals here when he came. Chem walked among you as gods then without the slightest concern.\'94
\par      \'93Illegal?\'94 she said. \'93What do you mean illegal?\'94
\par      \'93You\rquote ve rudimentary laws among your kind,\'94 Kelexel sneered. \'93You know about legality and illegality.\'94
\par      \'93I\rquote ve never even seen Fraffin,\'94 she said. \'93Except on the room screen.\'94
\par      \'93The letter of the law, eh? His minions, then \endash  what have they told you to do?\'94
\par      Again, she shook her head. There was a weapon here she could use; she sensed this, but couldn\rquote t quite understand enough to grasp it.
\par      Kelexel whirled away from her, strode to the pantovive and back. He stopped ten paces from Ruth, glared up at her. \'93He bred you and shaped you and nudged you \endash  }{\i\insrsid11485343 changed}{\insrsid11485343  you \endash 
 into the finest story property in the universe. Some of the offers he\rquote s had \endash  and turned down \endash  would \'85 well, you wouldn\rquote t understand.\'94
\par      \'93Turned down \'85 why?\'94 she asked.
\par      \'93Ahh, that is the question.\'94
\par      \'93Why \'85 why\rquote re we so valuable?\'94
\par      He gestured, a handsweep that pointed from her feet to her hair. \'93You\rquote re gross and overgrown, but quite a bit similar to us. We can identify with you. There\rquote s entertainment in your strivings, a surcease from boredom.\'94
\par      \'93But you said \endash  illegal?\'94
\par      \'93When a race such as yours reaches a certain stage, there are \'85 liberties we do not permit. We\rquote ve had to exterminate certain races, severely punish a few Chem.\'94
\par      \'93But what \'85 liberties?\'94
\par      \'93Never mind.\'94 Kelexel turned his back on her. It seemed obvious she spoke from actual ignorance. Under such manipulator pressure she could hardly lie or dissemble.
\par      Ruth stared at Kelexel\rquote s back. For long days now, a question had been creeping upward in her mind. The answer felt deeply important now. \'93How old are you?\'94 she asked.
\par      Slowly, Kelexel rotated on one heel, studied her. It took a moment to overcome the distaste aroused by such a gauche question, then: \'93How could that possibly bear on anything that concerns you?\'94
\par      \'93It \'85 I want to know.\'94
\par      \'93The actual duration \endash  that\rquote s not important. But a hundred such worlds as yours, perhaps many more, could\rquote ve come into being and dissolved to dust since my conception. Now, tell me why you want to know.\'94
\par      \'93I \'85 just want to know.\'94 She tried to swallow in a dry throat \'93How \'85 how do you \'85 preserve \'85\'94
\par      \'93Rejuvenation!\'94 He shook his head. What a distasteful subject. The native female was truly barbaric.
\par      \'93The woman Ynvic,\'94 Ruth said, sensing his emotional disturbance and enjoying it \'93She\rquote s called the shipsurgeon. Does she supervise the \'85\'94
\par      \'93It\rquote s routine! Purely routine. We\rquote ve elaborate protective mechanisms and devices that prevent anything bu
t minor damage. A shipsurgeon takes care of the minor damage. Very rare, that. We can take care of our own regenerative and rejuvenating treatments. Now, you will tell me why you ask.\'94
\par      \'93Could I \'85 we \'85\'94
\par      \'93Oh, ho!\'94 Kelexel threw his head back in a bark of laughter. Then: \'93You must be a Chem and conditioned for the process from birth or it cannot be done.\'94
\par      \'93But \'85 you\rquote re like us. You \'85 breed.\'94
\par      \'93Not with you, my dear pet. We\rquote re pleasurably similar, that I admit But with you it\rquote s dalliance, insulation from boredom, no more. We Chem cannot breed with any other \'85\'94
 He broke off, stared at her, remembering a conversation with Ynvic. They\rquote d been discussing the native violence, wars.
\par      \'93It\rquote s a built-in valving system to keep down the immunes,\'94 Ynvic had said.
\par      \'93The conflicts?\'94
\par      \'93Of course. A person immune to our manipulations tends to become generally dissatisfied, frustrated. Such creatures welcome violence and disregard personal safety. The attrition rate among them is very high.\'94
\par      Remembering Ynvic\rquote s words, Kelexel wondered: }{\i\insrsid11485343 Is it possible? No! It couldn\rquote t be! Gene samples from these natives were on record long ago. I\rquote ve seen them myself. But what if \'85 No! There\rquote 
s no way. But it would be so simple: falsify the gene sample. Shipsurgeon Ynvic! But if she did, why?}{\insrsid11485343  Kelexel shook his head. The whole idea was preposterous. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Even Fraffin wouldn\rquote 
t dare breed a planet full of half-Chem. The immune ratio would give him away before \'85 But there\rquote s always the \'93valving system.\'94}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93I will see Fraffin now,\'94 Kelexel muttered.
\par      And he remembered: }{\i\insrsid11485343 \'93Ynvic was referring to native immunes, but she said person.\'94}{\insrsid11485343 
\par \page 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\qc \li0\ri3389\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin3389\lin0\itap0\pararsid11485343 \b\f1\fs26\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11485343 15
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri3389\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin3389\lin0\itap0\pararsid11485343 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11485343 
\par      FRAFFIN SAT WAITING BEHIND HIS DESK AS KELEXEL entered the director\rquote s salon. The room\rquote s silver light had been tuned to a high
 pitch, almost glaring. The surface of the desk glittered. Fraffin wore native dress, a black suit with white linen tie. Golden buttons at the cuffs reflected shards of brilliance into Kelexel\rquote s eyes.
\par      Behind a mask of brooding superiority, Fraffin felt himself poised for a pouncing elation. This poor fool of an Investigator! The man had been aimed at his present moment like an arrow. It only remained for him to find the sort of target in which he
\rquote d been embedded.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 And I aimed him!}{\insrsid11485343  Fraffin thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 I put him here as surely as I put any native into its predicament.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93You asked to see me?\'94 Fraffin asked. He remained seated, emphasizing his displeasure with the visitor.
\par      Kelexel noted the gesture, ignored it. Fraffin\rquote s posture was almost boorish
. Perhaps it reflected confidence and that would bear watching. But the Primacy did not send complete fools to do its investigating and the Director must discover this soon.
\par      \'93I wish to discuss my pet with you,\'94 Kelexel said, seating himself across from Fraffin without invitation. The desk was an enormous empty expanse separating them. A fault glistening reflection of Fraffin could be seen in its surface.
\par      \'93There\rquote s something wrong with your pet?\'94 Fraffin asked. He smiled to himself, thinking of the latest report on Kelexel\rquote s antics with the native female. The Investigator was suspicious now; no doubt of that. But too late \endash 
 far too late.
\par      \'93Perhaps there\rquote s nothing wrong with my pet,\'94 Kelexel said. \'93Certainly she delights me. But it has occurred to me that I know so little really about the natives, her sources, so to speak.\'94
\par      \'93And you came to }{\i\insrsid11485343 me}{\insrsid11485343  to fill out this information?\'94
\par      \'93I felt certain you\rquote d see me,\'94 Kelexel said. He waited, wondering if that barb would sink home. Surely, it was time they brought the battle more into the open.
\par      Fraffin sat back, eyelids drooping, silver-blue shadows in the sockets. He nodded to himself. Ahh, it was going to be good sport playing out this fool\rquote s downfall. Fraffin savored the anticipatory moment, the instant of revelation.
\par      Kelexel put his hands on the arms of his chair, felt clean edges of construction, a gentle warmth. A distant musky aroma permeated the room, an exotic tantalizing thing full of alien strangeness \'85 a floral essence perhaps.
\par      \'93But you enjoy your pet?\'94 Fraffin asked.
\par      \'93A delight,\'94 Kelexel said. \'93Better even than the Subi. I wonder that you don\rquote t export them. Why is that?\'94
\par      \'93So you\rquote ve had a Subi,\'94 Fraffin said, parrying the question.
\par      \'93I still wonder that you don\rquote t export these females,\'94 Kelexel said. \'93I find it very odd.\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Oh, you find it odd,}{\insrsid11485343  Fraffin thought. He experienced an abrupt sour feeling about Kelexel. The man was so obviously besotten with the native female \endash  his first experience with them.
\par      \'93There are many collectors who\rquote d leap at the chance to have one of these natives,\'94 Kelexel said, probing. \'93Of all the delights you\rquote ve gathered here \'85\'94
\par      \'93And you think I\rquote ve nothing better to do than collect my natives for the delight of my fellows,\'94 Fraffin said. His voice sounded snappish and he wondered at the emotion in it. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Am I jealous of Kelexel?}{
\insrsid11485343  he asked himself.
\par      \'93Then what is your task here if not to make profit?\'94 Kelexel asked. He could feel himself growing angry with Fraffin. Certainly, the Director knew he faced an Investigator. But none of Fraffin\rquote s actions betrayed fear.
\par      \'93I\rquote m a collector of gossip,\'94 Fraffin said. \'93That I create some of this gossip myself, that is of no moment.\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Gossip?}{\insrsid11485343  Kelexel wondered.
\par      And Fraffin thought: }{\i\insrsid11485343 A collector of ancient gossip \endash  yes.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      He knew then that he was jealous of Kelexel, envious of the man\rquote s first encounter with a native female. Fraffin remembered the old days when the Chem had moved 
more openly on this world, creating the machinery of long maturation which they could exploit \endash  devising leprous diplomats full of pride\rquote s blind ignorance, nurturing death wishes to ride each back like a demon. Ahhh, those had been the days.

\par      Fraffin felt himself stretched for a moment on the rack of his own vision, remembering days when he\rquote d lived among the natives \endash 
 manipulating, maneuvering, eavesdropping, learning, listening to sniggering Roman boys talks of things their elders had forgotten even to
 whisper. In his mind, Fraffin saw his own villa with sunglow on a brick walk, grass, a tree, a planting of petulant forsythia. That\rquote s what }{\i\insrsid11485343 she\rquote d}{\insrsid11485343  called them \endash  \'93petulant forsythia.\'94
 How clearly he could see in his mind the young pear tree beside the walk.
\par      \'93They die so easily,\'94 he whispered.
\par      Kelexel put a finger to his cheek, said: \'93I think you\rquote re just a touch morbid \endash  all this emphasis on violence and death.\'94
\par      It wasn\rquote t in the plan, but Fraffin couldn\rquote t help himself. He glared at Kelexel, said: \'93You think you hate such things, eh? No, you don\rquote t! You say you\rquote 
re attracted by such things as this pretty native of yours. I hear you fancy the native clothing.\'94 He touched a sleeve of his jacket, a curious caressing gesture. \'93How little you know yourself, Kelexel.\'94
\par      Kelexel\rquote s face went dark with anger. This was too much! Fraffin exceeded all bounds of propriety!
\par      \'93We Chem have locked the door on death and violence,\'94 he muttered. \'93Viewing it as a dalliance, no more.\'94
\par      \'93Morbid, you say?\'94 Fraffin asked. \'93We\rquote ve locked the door on death? No longer for us, is it?\'94 He chuckled. \'93Yet, there it stands, our eternal temptation. What do I do here that attracts you so \endash 
 attracts you so much that in the very voice of admission you inquire about that which repels? I\rquote ll tell you what I do here: I play with temptations that my fellow Chem may watch.\'94
\par      Fraffin\rquote s hands moved as he talked \endash  chopping, cutting gestures that exposed the ever-young flesh, active, vibrant \endash  small hairs curling on the back of the fingers, nails blunt, flat.
\par      Kelexel stared at the man, caught in the spell of Fraffin\rquote s words. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Death-temptation? Surely not!}{\insrsid11485343  Yet, there was a cold certainty in the idea.
\par      Watching Fraffin\rquote s hands, Kelexel thought: }{\i\insrsid11485343 The hand must not overthrow the mind.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93You laugh,\'94 Kelexel said. \'93You think me amusing.\'94
\par      \'93Not }{\i\insrsid11485343 just}{\insrsid11485343  you,\'94 Fraffin said. \'93All is amusement \endash  the poor creatures of my caged world and every last blessed one of us who cannot hear the warnings of our own eternal lives. All warnings hav
e one exception, eh? Yourself! That\rquote s what I see and that\rquote s what amuses me. You laugh at }{\i\insrsid11485343 them}{\insrsid11485343  in my productions, but you don\rquote t know why you laugh. Ahh, Kelexel, here\rquote 
s where we hide the awareness of our own mortality.\'94
\par      Kelexel spoke in shocked outrage: \'93We\rquote re }{\i\insrsid11485343 not}{\insrsid11485343  mortal!\'94
\par      \'93Kelexel, Kelexel \endash  we\rquote re mortal. Any of us can end it, cease the rejuvenation, and that\rquote s mortal. That\rquote s mortal.\'94
\par      Kelexel sat silently staring. }{\i\insrsid11485343 The Director was insane!}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      For Fraffin, the everlasting awareness which his own words had aroused foamed across his mind and, receding, exposed his rage.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 I\rquote m angry and remorseful,}{\insrsid11485343  he thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 I\rquote ve accepted a morality no other Chem would entertain for a moment. I\rquote m sorry for Kelexel and for all the creatures I\rquote 
ve moved and removed without their knowing. They sprout fifty heads within me for every one I cut off. Gossip? A Collector of gossip? I\rquote m a person of sensitive ears who can still hear a knife scraping toast in a villa that no longer exists.}{
\insrsid11485343 
\par      He remembered the woman then \endash  the dark, exotic chatelaine of his Roman home. She\rquote d been no taller than himself, stunted by native standards, but lovely in his sight \endash  the best of them all. She\rquote 
d borne him eight mortal children, their mixed blood concealed in the genetic melt. She\rquote d grown old and dull of face \endash 
 and he remembered that too. Remembering her blunted look, he saw the black throng, the mixed-up disasters of their mingled genes. She\rquote d given him something no other could: a share in mortality that he could accept for his own.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 What the Primacy wouldn\rquote t give to know about that little interlude,}{\insrsid11485343  he thought.
\par      \'93You talk like a madman,\'94 Kelexel whispered.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 We contend openly now, eh?}{\insrsid11485343  Fraffin thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Perhaps I move too slowly with this dolt. Perhaps I should tell him now how he\rquote s caught in our trap.}{\insrsid11485343 
 But Fraffin felt himself swept up in the flow of his own anger. He couldn\rquote t help himself.
\par      \'93A madman?\'94 he asked, his voice sneering. \'93You say we\rquote re immortal, we Chem. How\rquote re we immortal? We rejuvenate and rejuvenate. We a
chieve a balance point, frozen short of final destruction. At what stage in our development, Chem Kelexel, are we frozen?\'94
\par      \'93Stage?\'94 Kelexel stared at him. Fraffin\rquote s words were firebrands.
\par      \'93Yes, stage! Are we frozen in maturity? I think, not. To mature one must flower. We don\rquote t flower, Kelexel.\'94
\par      \'93I don\rquote t \'85\'94
\par      \'93We don\rquote t produce something of beauty and loveliness, something which is the essence of ourselves! We don\rquote t flower.\'94
\par      \'93I\rquote ve had offspring!\'94
\par      Fraffin couldn\rquote t contain his laughter. When it subsided, he faced a now openly angry Kelexel, said: \'93The unflowering seed, the perpetual immaturity producing the perpetual immaturity \endash 
 and you brag about it! How mean and empty and frightened you are, Kelexel.\'94
\par      \'93What\rquote ve I to fear?\'94 Kelexel demanded. \'93Death can\rquote t touch me. }{\i\insrsid11485343 You}{\insrsid11485343  can\rquote t touch me!\'94
\par      \'93Except from within,\'94 Fraffin said. \'93Death can\rquote t touch a Chem except from within. We\rquote re sovereign individuals, immortal citadels of selfdom that no force can storm \'85 except from within. In each of us there\rquote 
s that seed out of our past, the seed which whispers: Remember? Remember when }{\i\insrsid11485343 we}{\insrsid11485343  could die?\'94
\par      Kelexel pushed himself upright, stood glaring down at Fraffin. \'93You\rquote re insane!\'94
\par      \'93Sit down, }{\i\insrsid11485343 visitor,\'94}{\insrsid11485343  Fraffin said. And he wondered at himself. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Why do I goad him? To justify myself in what I must do? If that\rquote 
s so, then I should give him something he can use against me. I should make this a more equal contest.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      Kelexel sank back into his seat. He reminded himself that the Chem were most
ly immune to the more bizarre forms of madness, but one never knew what stresses might be imposed by outpost living, by contact with an alien race. The boredom psychosis threatened all of them-perhaps Fraffin had succumbed to something in that syndrome.

\par      \'93Let us see if you have a conscience,\'94 Fraffin said.
\par      It was such an unexpected statement that Kelexel could only goggle at him. There came a sense of furtive emptying within himself, though, and Kelexel recognized peril in Fraffin\rquote s words.
\par      \'93What harm could there be in that?\'94
 Fraffin asked. He turned. Earlier one of the crew had brought a vase of roses and put them on the cabinet behind his desk. Fraffin looked at the roses. They were full blown, dripping blood-colored petals like the garlands on Diana\rquote s altar. }{
\i\insrsid11485343 There\rquote s no more joking in Sumeria,}{\insrsid11485343  he thought }{\i\insrsid11485343 No more do we jest, inserting foolishness into Minerva\rquote s wisdom.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93What are you talking about?\'94 Kelexel asked.
\par      For answer, Fraffin moved a control stud beneath his desk. His pantovive reproducer whirred into action, slid across the room like a giant beast and positioned itself at Fraffin\rquote s right where they would share the view of its focusing stage.

\par      Kelexel stared at it, suddenly dry-mouthed. The frivolous entertainment machine was a sudden monster that he feared was capable of striking him unaware.
\par      \'93It was thoughtful of you to provide one of these for your pet,\'94 Fraffin said. \'93Shall we see what she\rquote s watching?\'94
\par      \'93How can that concern us?\'94 Kelexel demanded. He heard anger and uncertainty in his own voice, knew Fraffin was aware of this reaction.
\par      \'93Let us see,\'94 Fraffin said. He swung the bank of control studs within easy reach, moved them lovingly. The stage became a native room up there on the planet surface \endash  a long, na
rrow room with beige plaster walls, a washed brown ceiling. The view looked directly along a burn-scarred plank table that jutted from a steam radiator which hissed beneath the red and white curtains of a barred window.
\par      Two men sat facing each other across the table.
\par      \'93Ahh,\'94 Fraffin said. \'93On the left we have your pet\rquote s father, and on the right we have the man she\rquote d have mated with had we not stepped in and given her to you.\'94
\par      \'93Stupid, useless natives,\'94 Kelexel sneered.
\par      \'93But she\rquote s watching them right now,\'94 Fraffin said. \'93This is what\rquote s going into her pantovive \'85 which you so kindly provided.\'94
\par      \'93She\rquote s quite happy here; I\rquote m sure of it,\'94 Kelexel said.
\par      \'93Then why don\rquote t you release her from the manipulator?\'94 Fraffin asked.
\par      \'93When she\rquote s fully conditioned,\'94 Kelexel said. \'93She\rquote ll be more than content to serve a Chem when she understands what we can provide her.\'94
\par      \'93Of course,\'94 Fraffin said. He studied Andy Thurlow\rquote s profile. The lips moved, but Fraffin kept the sound bar turned off. \'93That\rquote s why she watches this scene from my current production.\'94
\par      \'93What\rquote s so important about this scene?\'94 Kelexel demanded. \'93Perhaps she\rquote s caught by your artistry.\'94
\par      \'93Indeed,\'94 Fraffin said.
\par      Kelexel studied the native on the left. His pet\rquote s father? He noted how the native\rquote 
s eyelids drooped. This was a heavy-featured creature with an air of secretiveness about it. The native might almost have been a gross Chem. How could that thing have fathered the slender grace of his pet?
\par      \'93The one she\rquote d have mated with is a native witchdoctor,\'94 Fraffin said.
\par      \'93Witchdoctor?\'94
\par      \'93They prefer to be called psychologists. Shall we listen to them?\'94
\par      \'93As you said: What harm could there be in that?\'94
\par      Fraffin moved the sound bar. \'93Yes, indeed.\'94
\par      \'93Perhaps it\rquote ll be amusing,\'94 Kelexel said, but there was no amusement in his voice. Why did his pet watch these creatures out of her past? This could only torment her.
\par      \'93Shhh,\'94 Fraffin said.
\par      \'93What?\'94
\par      \'93Listen!\'94
\par      Thurlow bent to arrange a stack of papers on the table. The sound was a faint hissing. There came the smell of dusty air, stale and full of strange essences, as the sensimesh web encompassed Kelexel and Fraffin.
\par      Joe Murphey\rquote s guttural voice rumbled from the stage: \'93I\rquote m surprised to see you, Andy. Heard you had some sort of attack.\'94
\par      \'93It must\rquote ve been the one-day flu,\'94 Thurlow said. \'93Everybody\rquote s been having it\'94
\par      (Fraffin chuckled.)
\par      \'93Any word from Ruthy?\'94 Murphey asked.
\par      \'93No.\'94
\par      \'93You\rquote ve lost her again, that\rquote s what. Thought I told you to take care of her. But maybe women\rquote s all alike.\'94
\par      Thurlow adjusted his glasses, looked up and straight into the eyes of the watching Chem.
\par      Kelexel gasped.
\par      \'93What do you make of that?\'94 Fraffin whispered.
\par      \'93An immune!\'94 Kelexel hissed. And he thought: }{\i\insrsid11485343 I have Fraffin now! Allowing an immune to watch his shooting crew!}{\insrsid11485343  He asked: \'93Is the creature still alive?\'94
\par      \'93We recently gave him a little taste of our power,\'94 Fraffin said, \'93but I find him too amusing to destroy.\'94
\par      Murphey cleared his throat and Kelexel sat back, watching, listening. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Destroy yourself, then, Fraffin,}{\insrsid11485343  he thought.
\par      \'93You wouldn\rquote t get sick if you were in here,\'94 Murphey said. \'93I\rquote ve gained weight on this jailhouse diet. What surprises me is how well I\rquote ve adjusted to the routine here.\'94
\par      Thurlow returned his attention to the papers in front of him.
\par      Kelexel felt himself caught by the creatures\rquote  actions, sensed himself sinking out of sight into these other beings, becoming a bundle of watchful senses. One irritant remained to gnaw at him, though: }{\i\insrsid11485343 
Why does she watch these creatures from her past?}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93Things are going along all right, eh?\'94 Thurlow asked. He stacked inkblot cards in front of Murphey.
\par      \'93Well it does drag,\'94 Murphey said. \'93Things\rquote re slow here.\'94 He tried not to look at the cards.
\par      \'93But you think jail agrees with you?\'94
\par      Fraffin manipulated the pantovive controls. Point of view moved closer to the natives. The two figures became enlarged profiles. (Kelexel experienced the eerie sensation that his own flesh had been moved, pushed forward to a new vantage.)
\par      \'93We\rquote re going to run these cards a little differently this time,\'94 Thurlow said. \'93You\rquote ve been having these tests so frequently, I want to change the pace.\'94
\par      An abrupt crouching look came over Murphey\rquote s hunched shoulders, but his voice emerged open and bland: \'93Anything you say, Doc.\'94
\par      \'93I\rquote ll sit here facing you,\'94 Thurlow said. \'93That\rquote s a bit unorthodox, but this situation\rquote s full of irregularities.\'94
\par      \'93You mean you knowing me and all?\'94
\par      \'93Yes.\'94 Thurlow placed a stopwatch beside him on the table. \'93And I\rquote ve changed the usual order of the cards.\'94
\par      The stopwatch exerted a sudden attraction for Murphey. He stared at it. A fault tremor moved up his thick forearms. With a visible effort, he arranged his features into a look of eager brightness, a willingness to cooperate.
\par      \'93You sat behind me last time,\'94 he said. \'93So did Doctor Whelye.\'94
\par      \'93I know,\'94 Thurlow said. He busied himself checking the order of the cards.
\par      Kelexel jumped as Fraffin touched his arm, looked up to see the director leaning across the desk. \'93This Thurlow\rquote s good,\'94 Fraffin whispered. \'93Watch him carefully. Notice how he changes the test. There\rquote 
s a learning element involved in having the same test several times in a short period. It\rquote s like being put in jeopardy enough times until you learn how to avoid the danger.\'94
\par      Kelexel heard the double meaning in Fraffin\rquote 
s words, watched as the Director sank back, smiling. A sense of unease came over Kelexel then. He returned his attention to the pantovive stage. What was the importance of this scene, this confession of guilt? A consc
ience? He studied Thurlow, wondering if Ruth were released would she go back to that creature. How could she after experiencing a Chem?
\par      A pang of jealousy shot through Kelexel. He sat back, scowled.
\par      Thurlow now gave evidence of being ready to start his test. He exposed the first card, started his stopwatch, kept a hand on it.
\par      Murphey stared at the first card, pursed his lips. Presently, he said: \'93Been a car accident. Two people killed. That\rquote s their bodies beside the road. Lotsa accidents nowadays. People just don\rquote t know how to handle fast cars.\'94
\par      \'93Are you isolating part of the pattern or does the whole card give you that picture?\'94 Thurlow asked.
\par      Murphey blinked. \'93Just this little part here.\'94 He turned the card face down, lifted the second one. \'93This is a will or a deed like to property, but somebody\rquote s let it fall in the water and the writing\rquote s all smeared. That\rquote 
s how you can\rquote t read it.\'94
\par      \'93A will? Any idea whose?\'94
\par      Murphey gestured with the card. \'93You know, when grandpaw died they never found the will. He had one. We all knew he had one, but Uncle Amos wound up with most of Gramp\rquote s stuff. That\rquote s how I learned to be careful with my papers. You
\rquote ve gotta be careful with important papers.\'94
\par      \'93Was your father cautious like that?\'94
\par      \'93Paw? Hell, no!\'94
\par      Thurlow appeared caught by something in Murphey\rquote s tone. He said: \'93You and your father ever fight?\'94
\par      \'93Jawed some, that\rquote s all.\'94
\par      \'93You mean argued.\'94
\par      \'93Yeah. He always wanted me to stay with the mules and wagon.\'94
\par      Thurlow sat waiting, watchful, studying.
\par      Murphey assumed a death\rquote s head grin. \'93That\rquote s an old saying we had in the family.\'94 Abruptly, he put down the card in his hand, took up the third one. He cocked his head to one side. \'93Hide of a muskrat stretched out 
to dry. They brought eleven cents apiece when I was a boy.\'94
\par      Thurlow said: \'93Try for another association. See if you can find something else in the card.\'94
\par      Murphey flicked a glance at Thurlow, back to the card. An appearance of spring-wound tension came over him. The silence dragged out.
\par      Watching the scene, Kelexel had the sensation that Thurlow was reaching through Murphey to the pantovive\rquote s audience. He felt that he himself was being examined by the witch doctor. Logically, Kelexel knew this s
cene already lay in the past, that it was a captured record. There was an immediacy about it, though, a sensation of moving freely in time.
\par      Again Murphey looked at Thurlow. \'93It might be a dead bat,\'94 he said. \'93Somebody might\rquote ve shot it\'94
\par      \'93Oh? Why would anyone do that?\'94
\par      \'93Because they\rquote re dirty!\'94 Murphey put the card on the table, pushed it away from him. He looked concerned. Slowly, he reached for the next card, exposed it as though fearful of what he might find.
\par      Thurlow checked the watch, returned his attention to Murphey.
\par      Murphey studied the card in his hand. Several times he appeared about to speak. Each time he hesitated, remained silent. Presently, he said: \'93Fourth of July rockets, the fire kind that go off in the air. Dangerous damn\rquote  things.\'94
\par      \'93The explosive kind?\'94 Thurlow asked.
\par      Murphey peered at the card. \'93Yeah, the kind that explode and shoot out stars. Those stars can start fires.\'94
\par      \'93Have you ever seen one start a fire?\'94
\par      \'93I\rquote ve heard about it.\'94
\par      \'93Where?\'94
\par      \'93Lotsa places! Every year they warn people about those damn\rquote  things. Don\rquote t you read the papers?\'94
\par      Thurlow made a note on the pad in front of him.
\par      Murphey glowered at him a moment, went on to the next card. \'93This one\rquote s a drawing of where they\rquote ve poisoned an ant hill and cut the hill in half to map out how the holes were dug.\'94
\par      Thurlow leaned back, his attention concentrated on Murphey\rquote s face. \'93Why would someone make such a map?\'94
\par      \'93To see how the ants work it out. I fell on an anthill when I was a kid. They bit like fire. Maw put soda on me. Paw poured coal oil on the hill and set a match to it. Man, did they scatter! Paw jumping all around, smashing \lquote em.\'94
\par      With a reluctant motion, Murphey put down the card, took up the next one. He glared at Thrulow\rquote s hand making notes, turned his attention to the card. A charged silence settled over him.
\par      Staring at the card in Murphey\rquote s hand, Kelexel saw Chem flitters against a sunset sky, a fleet of them going from nowhere to nowhere. He experienced a sudden fearful wondering at what Thurlow might say to this.
\par      Murphey extended the card at arm\rquote s length, squinted his eyes. \'93Over on the left there it could be that mountain in Switzerland where people\rquote re always falling off and getting killed.\'94
\par      \'93The Matterhorn?\'94
\par      \'93Yeah.\'94
\par      \'93Does the rest of the card suggest anything to you?\'94
\par      Murphey tossed the card aside. \'93Nothing.\'94
\par      Thurlow made a notation on the pad, looked up at Murphey who was studying the next card.
\par      \'93All the times I\rquote ve seen this card,\'94 Murphey said. \'93I never noticed this place up at the top.\'94 He pointed. \'93Right up here. It\rquote 
s a shipwreck with lifeboats sticking up out of the water. These little dots are the drowned people.\'94
\par      Thurlow swallowed. He appeared to be debating a comment. With an abrupt leaning toward, he asked: \'93Were there any survivors?\'94
\par      A look of sad reluctance came over Murphey\rquote s face. \'93No,\'94 he sighed. \'93This was a bad one. You know, my Uncle Al died the year the Titanic sank.\'94
\par      \'93Was he on the Titanic?\'94
\par      \'93No. That\rquote s just how I fix the date. Helps you remember. Like when that Zeppelin burned, that was the year I moved my company into the new building.\'94
\par      Murphey went to the next card, smiled. \'93Here\rquote s an easy one. It\rquote s a mushroom cloud from an atomic bomb.\'94
\par      Thurlow wet his lips with his tongue, then: \'93The whole card?\'94
\par      \'93No, just this white place here at the side.\'94 He pointed. \'93It\rquote s \'85 like a photograph of the explosion.\'94
\par      Murphey\rquote s blocky hand shuffled to the next card. He held it close, squinting down at it. An air of brooding silence settled over the room.
\par      Kelexel glanced at Fraffin, found the director studying him.
\par      \'93What\rquote s the purpose of all this?\'94 Kelexel whispered.
\par      \'93You\rquote re whispering,\'94 Fraffin said. \'93Don\rquote t you want Thurlow to hear you?\'94
\par      \'93What?\'94
\par      \'93These native witch doctors have strange powers,\'94 Fraffin said. \'93They\rquote re very penetrating at times.\'94
\par      \'93It\rquote s a lot of nonsense,\'94 Kelexel said. \'93Mumbo jumbo. The test doesn\rquote t mean a thing. The native\rquote s answers are perfectly logical I might\rquote ve said comparable things myself.\'94
\par      \'93Indeed?\'94 Fraffin said.
\par      Kelexel remained silent, returned his attention to the pantovive stage. Murphey was peering warily at Thurlow.
\par      \'93Part through the middle might be a forest fire,\'94 Murphey said. He watched Thurlow\rquote s mouth.
\par      \'93Have you ever seen a forest fire?\'94
\par      \'93Where one\rquote d been. Stank to heaven with dead cows. Burned out a ranch up on the Siuslaw.\'94
\par      Thurlow wrote on the pad.
\par      Murphey glared at him, swallowed, turned to the final card. As he looked at it, he drew in a sharp, hard breath as though he\rquote d been hit in the stomach.
\par      Thurlow looked up quickly, studied him.
\par      A look of confusion passed over Murphey\rquote s face. He squirmed in his chair, then: \'93Is this one of the regular cards?\'94
\par      \'93Yes.\'94
\par      \'93I don\rquote t remember it.\'94
\par      \'93Oh. Do you remember all the other cards?\'94
\par      \'93Kind of.\'94
\par      \'93What about this card?\'94
\par      \'93I think you\rquote ve rung in a new one.\'94
\par      \'93No. It\rquote s one of the regular Rorschach cards.\'94
\par      Murphey turned a hard stare on the psychologist, said: \'93I had a right to kill her, Doc. Let\rquote s remember that. I had a right. A husband has to protect his home.\'94
\par      Thurlow sat quietly waiting.
\par      Murphey jerked his attention back to the card. \'93A junkyard,\'94 he blurted. \'93It reminds me of a junkyard.\'94
\par      Still, Thurlow remained silent.
\par      \'93Wrecked cars, old boilers, things like that,\'94 Murphey said. He tossed the card aside, sat back with a look of cautious waiting.
\par      Thurlow took a deep breath, collected the cards and data sheets, slipped them into a briefcase which he lifted from the floor beside his chak. Slowly, he turned, stared directly into the pantovive.
\par      Kelexel had the disquieting sensation that Thurlow was staring him in the eyes.
\par      \'93Tell me, Joe,\'94 Thurlow said, \'93what do you see there?\'94 He pointed at the pantovive\rquote s watchers.
\par      \'93Huh? Where?\'94
\par      \'93There.\'94 Thurlow continued to point.
\par      Murphey now stared out of the pantovive at the audience. \'93Some dust or smoke,\'94 he said. \'93They don\rquote t keep this place too clean.\'94
\par      \'93But what do you see in the dust or smoke?\'94 Thurlow persisted. He lowered his hand.
\par      Murphey squinted, tipped his head to one side, \'93Ohh, maybe it\rquote s kinda like; a lot of little faces \'85 babies\rquote  faces, like cherubs or \'85 no, like those imps they put in pictures of hell.\'94
\par      Thurlow turned back to the prisoner. \'93Imps of hell,\'94 he murmured. \'93How very appropriate.\'94
\par      At the pantovive, Fraffin slapped the cutoff. The scene faded from the stage.
\par      Kelexel blinked, turned, was surprised to find Fraffin chuckling.
\par      \'93Imps of hell,\'94 Fraffin said. \'93Oh, that\rquote s lovely. That is purely lovely.\'94
\par      \'93You\rquote re deliberately allowing an immune to watch us and record our actions,\'94 Kelexel said. \'93I see nothing lovely about that!\'94
\par      \'93What did you think of Murphey?\'94 Fraffin asked.
\par      \'93He looked as sane as I am.\'94
\par      A spasm of laughter overcame Fraffin. He shook his head, rubbed his eyes, then: \'93Murphey\rquote s my own creation, Kelexel. My own creation. I\rquote ve shaped him most carefully and certainly from his infancy. Isn\rquote 
t he delightful. Imps of hell!\'94
\par      \'93Is he an immune, too?\'94
\par      \'93Lords of Preservation, no!\'94
\par      Kelexel studied the Director. Surely Fraffin had penetrated the disguise by now. Why would he betray
 himself, flaunt an immune before an Investigator from the Primacy? Was it the witch doctor? Had these natives some mysterious power which Fraffin could use?
\par      \'93I don\rquote t understand your motives, Fraffin,\'94 Kelexel said.
\par      \'93That\rquote s obvious,\'94 Fraffin said. \'93What about Thurlow. Does it give you no pangs of guilt to watch the creature you\rquote ve robbed of a mate?\'94
\par      \'93The \'85 witchdoctor? The immune? He must be disposed of. How can I rob him of anything? It\rquote s a Chem\rquote s right to take whatever he desires from the lower orders.\'94
\par      \'93But \'85 Thurlow\rquote s almost human, don\rquote t you think?\'94
\par      \'93Nonsense!\'94
\par      \'93No, no, Kelexel. He has a great native capability. He\rquote s superb. Couldn\rquote t you see how he was drawing Murphey out, exposing the flesh of insanity?\'94
\par      \'93How can you say the native\rquote s insane?\'94
\par      \'93He is, Kelexel. I made him that way.\'94
\par      \'93I \'85 don\rquote t believe you.\'94
\par      \'93Patience and courtesy,\'94 Fraffin said. \'93What would you say if I told you I could show you more of Thurlow without your seeing him at all?\'94
\par      Kelexel 
sat up straight He felt wary, as though all his previous fears had come back amplified. Bits of the scene Fraffin had just shown reeled through his mind, clinging and wisping away, their meanings changed and distorted. Insane? And what of Ruth, his pet? }
{\i\insrsid11485343 She}{\insrsid11485343  had watched that scene, perhaps was still watching more of it. Why would she wish to see such a \'85
 painful thing. It must be painful for her. It must be. For the first time in his memory, Kelexel felt himself drawn to share another being\rquote s emotions. He tried to shake it }{\i\insrsid11485343 off.}{\insrsid11485343 
 She was a native, one of the lower orders. He looked up to find Fraffin staring at him. It was as though they had exchanged places with the two natives they\rquote d just watched. Fraffin had assumed the role of Thurlow and he, Kelexel, was Murphey.

\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 What powers has he gained from these natives?}{\insrsid11485343  Kelexel asked himself. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Can he see into me, divine my thoughts? But I\rquote m not insane}{\insrsid11485343  \'85 or }{\i\insrsid11485343 
violent.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93What paradox is this you propose?\'94 Kelexel demanded. And he was proud that his voice remained level, calm and questing.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Gently, gently,}{\insrsid11485343  Fraffin thought }{\i\insrsid11485343 He\rquote s well hooked, but he mustn\rquote t struggle with me too much \endash  not yet.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93An amusing thing,\'94 Fraffin said. \'93Observe.\'94 He gestured at the pantovive\rquote s stage, manipulated the controls.
\par      Kelexel turned reluctantly, stared at the projected scene-the same drab room, the same barred window with its red and white curtains, the hissing radiator, Murphey seated in the same position at the scarred table. It was a tableau, identical with the
 scene they\rquote d just watched except that another native sat behind Murphey, his back to the observers, a clipboard and papers on his knees.
\par      Like Murphey, this new figure conveyed an impression of excessive bulk. The visible curve of cheek when he turned his head showed choleric. The back of his neck carried a sanitary, barber-scraped appearance.
\par      A scattered stack of the inkblot cards lay on the table before Murphey. He was tapping a finger on the back of one of them.
\par      As Kelexel studied the scene, he observed a subtle difference in Murphey. There was a suggestion of greater calm. He was more relaxed, more sure of himself.
\par      Fraffin cleared his throat, said: \'93The native writing on that pad is another witch doctor, Whelye, an associate of Thurlow\rquote s. He has just finished administering the same test to Murphey. Observe him carefully.\'94
\par      \'93Why?\'94 Kelexel asked. This repetition of native rites was beginning to bore him.
\par      \'93Just observe,\'94 Fraffin said.
\par      Abruptly, Murphey picked up the card he\rquote d been tapping, looked at it, discarded it.
\par      Whelye turned, raised his head to expose a round face, two buttons of blue eyes, a steep shelf of nose and thin mouth. Satisfaction poured from him as though it were a light he shone on everything within rang
e of his senses. In the satisfaction there lay a stalking craftiness.
\par      \'93That card,\'94 he said, his voice petulant. \'93Why\rquote d you look at that card again?\'94
\par      \'93I \'85 ah, just wanted another look,\'94 Murphey said. He lowered his head.
\par      \'93Do you see something new in it?\'94
\par      \'93What I always see in it \endash  an animal skin.\'94
\par      Whelye stared at the back of Murphey\rquote s head with a look of glee. \'93An animal skin, the kind you trapped when you were a boy.\'94
\par      \'93I made a lot of money off those skins. Always had an eye for money.\'94
\par      Whelye\rquote s head bobbed up and down, a curious wracking motion that rippled a fold of flesh against his collar. \'93Would you like a second look at any of the other cards?\'94
\par      Murphey wet his lips with his tongue. \'93Guess not.\'94
\par      \'93Interesting,\'94 Whelye murmured.
\par      Murphey turned slightly, spoke without looking at the psychiatrist. \'93Doc, maybe you\rquote d tell me something.\'94
\par      \'93What?\'94
\par      \'93I had this test from another of you headshrinkers, you know \endash  from Thurlow. What\rquote s it show?\'94
\par      Something fierce and pouncing arose in Whelye\rquote s face. \'93Didn\rquote t Thurlow tell you?\'94
\par      \'93No. I figured you\rquote re more of a right guy, that you\rquote d level with me.\'94
\par      Whelye looked down at the papers in his lap, moved his pencil absently. He began filling in the \'93o\rquote s\'94 of a printed line. \'93Thurlow has no medical degree.\'94
\par      \'93Yeah, but what\rquote s the test show about me?\'94
\par      Whelye completed his pencil work on the line of print, sat back and examined it \'93It takes a little time to evaluate the data,\'94 he said, \'93but I\rquote d hazard a guess you\rquote re as normal as the next fellow.\'94
\par      \'93Does that mean I\rquote m sane?\'94 Murphey asked. He stared at the table, breath held, waiting.
\par      \'93As sane as I am,\'94 Whelye said.
\par      A deep sigh escaped Murphey. He smiled, looked sidelong at the inkblot cards. \'93Thanks, Doc.\'94
\par      The scene faded abruptly.
\par      Kelexel shook his head, looked across the desk to see Fraffin\rquote s hand on the pantovive\rquote s cutoff controls. The Director was grinning at him.
\par      \'93See,\'94 Fraffin said. \'93Someone else who thinks Murphey\rquote s sane, someone who agrees with you.\'94
\par      \'93You said you were going to show me Thurlow.\'94
\par      \'93But I did!\'94
\par      \'93I don\rquote t understand.\'94
\par      \'93Didn\rquote t you see the compulsive way this witch doctor filled in those letters on his paper? Did you see Thurlow doing anything like that?\'94
\par      \'93No, but \'85\'94
\par      \'93And didn\rquote t you notice how much this witch doctor enjoyed Murphey\rquote s fear?\'94
\par      \'93But fear }{\i\insrsid11485343 can}{\insrsid11485343  be amusing at times.\'94
\par      \'93And pain, and violence?\'94 Fraffin asked.
\par      \'93Certainly, if they\rquote re handled correctly.\'94
\par      Fraffin continued to stare at him, smiling.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 I enjoy their fear, too,}{\insrsid11485343  Kelexel thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Is that what this insane director\rquote s suggesting? Is he trying to compare me to these}{\insrsid11485343  \'85 }{\i\insrsid11485343 c
reatures? Any Chem enjoys such things!}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93Some of these natives have conceived the strange idea,\'94 Fraffin said, \'93that anything which degrades life \endash  degrades }{\i\insrsid11485343 any}{\insrsid11485343  life \endash  is a sickness.\'94
\par      \'93But that depends entirely on what form of life\rquote s degraded,\'94 Kelexel objected. \'93Surely, even these natives of yours wouldn\rquote t hesitate to degrade a \'85 a \'85 a worm!\'94
\par      Fraffin merely stared at him.
\par      \'93Well?\'94 Kelexel demanded.
\par      Still Fraffin stared.
\par      Kelexel felt his rage rising. He glared at Fraffin.
\par      \'93It\rquote s merely an idea,\'94 Fraffin said, \'93something to toy with. Ideas are our toys, too, aren\rquote t they?\'94
\par      \'93An insane idea,\'94 Kelexel growled.
\par      He reminded himself then that he was here to remove the menace of this storyship\rquote s mad director. And the man had exposed his crime! It would bring severe censure and relocation at the very least. And if this were widespread \endash 
 ah, then! Kelexel sat studying Fraffin, savoring the coming moment of denunciation, the righteous anger, the threat of eternal ostracism from his own kind. Let Fraffin go into the outer blackness of eternal boredom! Let this madman discover what }{
\i\insrsid11485343 Forever}{\insrsid11485343  really meant!
\par      The thought lay there a moment in Kelexel\rquote s mind. He had never approached it from quite this point of view before. Forever. }{\i\insrsid11485343 What does it really mean?}{\insrsid11485343  he asked himself.
\par      He tried to imagine himself isolated, thrown onto his own resources for time-without-end. His mind recoiled from the thought, and he felt a twinge of pity for what might happen to Fraffin.
\par      \'93Now,\'94 Fraffin said. \'93Now is the moment.\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Can he be goading me to denounce him?}{\insrsid11485343  Kelexel wondered. }{\i\insrsid11485343 It isn\rquote t possible!}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93It\rquote s my pleasant task to tell you,\'94 Fraffin said, \'93that you\rquote re going to have another offspring.\'94
\par      Kelexel sat staring, stupefied by the words. He tried to speak, couldn\rquote t. Presently, he found his voice, rasped: \'93But how can you \'85\'94
\par      \'93Oh, not in the legally approved manner,\'94 Fraffin said, \'93There\rquote ll be no delicate little operation, no optimum sel}{\f72\insrsid11485343 ection of ovarian donor from the banks in the Primacy\rquote s cr\'e8che. Nothing that simple.\'94

\par }{\insrsid11485343      \'93What do you \'85\'94
\par      \'93Your native pet,\'94 Fraffin said. \'93You\rquote ve impregnated her. She\rquote s going to bear your child in the \'85 ancient way, as we once did before the orderly organization of the Primacy.\'94
\par      \'93That \'85 that\rquote s impossible,\'94 Kelexel whispered.
\par      \'93Not at an,\'94 Fraffin said. \'93You see, what we have here is a planet full of wild Chem.\'94
\par      Kelexel sat silently absorbing the evil beauty of Fraffin\rquote s revelation, seei
ng the breath behind the words, seeing things here as he was meant to see them. The crime was so simple. So simple! Once he overcame the mental block that occluded thinking about such matters, the whole structure fell into place. It was a crime fitting Fr
affin\rquote s stature, a crime such as no other Chem had ever conceived. A perverse admiration for Fraffin seeped through Kelexel.
\par      \'93You are thinking,\'94 Fraffin said, \'93that you have but to denounce me and the Primacy will set matters right. Attend the conseque
nces. The creatures of this planet will be sterilized so as not to contaminate the Chem bloodlines. The planet will be shut down until we can put it to some }{\i\insrsid11485343 proper}{\insrsid11485343 
 use. Your new offspring, a half-breed, will go with the rest.\'94
\par      Abruptly, Kelexel sensed forgotten instincts begin to war }{\i\insrsid11485343 in}{\insrsid11485343  him. The threat in Fraffin\rquote s words opened a hoard of things Kelexel had thought locked away. He\rquote 
d never suspected the potency or danger of these forces he\rquote d supposed were chained \endash  forever. Odd thoughts buzzed in his mind like caged birds. Something free and wild rose in him and he thought:
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Imagine having an unlimited number of offspring!}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      Then: }{\i\insrsid11485343 So this is what happened to the other Investigators!}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      In this instant, Kelexel knew he had lost.
\par      \'93Will you let them destroy your offspring?\'94 Fraffin asked.
\par      The question was redundant. Kelexel had already posed it and answered it. No Chem would hazard his own offspring-so rare and precious a thing, that lonely link with the lost past. He sighed.
\par      In the sigh, Fraffin saw victory and smiled.
\par      Kelexel\rquote s thoughts turned inward. The Primacy had lost another round with Fraffin. The precise and formal way he had participated in that loss grew clearer to Kelexel by the minute. There was the blind (was it really blind?) way he\rquote 
d walked into the trap. He\rquote d been as easy for Fraffin to manipulate as any of the wild creatures on this wonderful world.
\par      The realization that he must accept defeat, that he had no choice, brought an odd feeling of happiness to Kelexel. It wasn\rquote t joy, but a backward sorrow as poignant and profound as grief.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 I will have an unlimited supply of female pets,}{\insrsid11485343  he thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 And they will give me offspring.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      A cloud passed across his mind then and he spoke to Fraffin as a fellow conspirator: \'93What if the Primacy sends a }{\i\insrsid11485343 female}{\insrsid11485343  Investigator?\'94
\par      \'93Make our task easier,\'94 Fraffin said. \'93Chem females, deprived of the ability to breed, but }{\i\insrsid11485343 not}{\insrsid11485343  deprived of the instinct, find great joy here. They dabble in the pleasures of the flesh, of cour
se. Native males have a wonderful lack of inhibitions. But the magnetic attraction for our females is a very simple thing. One exposure and they\rquote re addicted to watching at the births! They get some vicarious pleasure out of it that I don\rquote 
t understand, but Ynvic assures me it\rquote s profound.\'94
\par      Kelexel nodded. It must be true. The females in this conspiracy must be held by some strong tie. But Kelexel was still the Investigator in his training. He noted the way Fraffin\rquote s mouth moved, the creasing of lines at 
the eyes: little betrayals. There was an element here that Fraffin was refusing to recognize. The battle would be lost some day. Forever was too long for the Primacy to lose every exchange. Suspicions would mount to certainty and then }{
\i\insrsid11485343 any}{\insrsid11485343  means would be employed to unveil this secret.
\par      Seeing this, Kelexel felt a pang of grief. It was as though the inevitable already had happened. Here was an outpost of the Chem mortality and it, too, would go \endash  in time. Here was a part of all Chem that rebelled against }{\i\insrsid11485343 
Forever.}{\insrsid11485343  Here was the proof that somewhere in every Chem, the fact of immortality hadn\rquote t been accepted. But the evidence would be erased.
\par      \'93We\rquote ll find you a planet of your own,\'94 Fraffin said.
\par      The instant he\rquote d spoken, Fraffin wondered if he\rquote d been too precipitate. Kelexel might need time to digest things. He\rquote d appeared to stiffen there, but now he was rising, the polite Chem taking his leave, accepting defeat \endash 
 no doubt going to be rejuvenated. He\rquote d see the need for that at once, of course.
\par \page 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\qc \li0\ri3389\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin3389\lin0\itap0\pararsid11485343 \b\f1\fs26\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11485343 16
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri3389\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin3389\lin0\itap0\pararsid11485343 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11485343 
\par  
    KELEXEL LAY FACE UP ON THE BED, HIS HANDS BEHIND his head, watching Ruth pace the floor. Back and forth, back and forth she went, her green robe hissing against her legs. She did this almost every time he came here now-unless he set the manipulator at
 a disgustingly high pressure.
\par      His eyes moved to follow the pacing. Her robe was belted at the waist with emeralds chained in silver that glittered under the room\rquote s yellow light. Her body gave definite visible hints of her pregnancy \endash  a mounding of the
 abdomen, a rich glow to her skin. She knew her condition, of course, but aside from one outburst of hysterics (which the manipulator controlled quickly) she made no mention of it.
\par      Only ten rest periods had passed since his interview with Fraffin, yet Kelexel felt the past which had terminated in the director\rquote s salon had receded into dimness. The \'93amusing little story\'94 centered on Ruth\rquote 
s parent had been recorded and terminated. (Kelexel found it less amusing every time he viewed it.) All that remained was to find a suitable outpost planet for his own uses.
\par      Back and forth Ruth paced. She\rquote d be at the pantovive in a moment, he knew. She hadn\rquote t used it yet in his presence, but he could see her glancing at it. He could sense the machine drawing her into its orbit.
\par      Kelexel glanced up at the manipulator controlling her emotions. The strength of its setting frightened him. She\rquote d be immune to it one day; no doubt of that. The manipulator was a great metal insect spread over the ceiling.
\par      Kelexel sighed.
\par      Now that he knew Ruth was a wild Chem, her ancestry heavily infused with storyship bloodlines, he found his feelings about her disturbed. She had become more than a creature, almost a }{\i\insrsid11485343 person.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      Was it right to manipulate a person? Wrong? Right? Conscience? The attitudes of this world\rquote s exotics infused strange doubts into him. Ruth wasn\rquote t full Chem \endash  never could be. She hadn\rquote 
t been taken in infancy, transformed and stunted by immortality. She was marked down at no position in Tiggywaugh\rquote s web.
\par      What would the Primacy do when they found out? Was Fraffin correct? Would they blot this world? They were capable of it. But the natives were so attractive it didn\rquote t seem possible they\rquote d be obliterated. They were Chem \endash 
 wild Chem. But no matter the Primacy\rquote s attentions, this place would be overwhelmed. No one presently partaking of its pleasures would have a part in the new order.
\par      Arguments went back and forth in his mind in a pattern much like Ruth\rquote s pacing.
\par      Her movement began to anger him. She did this to annoy him, deliberately testing the limits of her power. Kelexel reached beneath his cloak, adjusted the manipulator.
\par      Ruth stopped as though drawn up against a wall. She turned, faced him. \'93Again?\'94 she asked, her voice flat.
\par      \'93Take off your robe,\'94 he said.
\par      She stood unmoving.
\par      Kelexel exerted more pressure, repeated his command. The manipulator\rquote s setting went up \'85 up \'85 up \'85
\par      Slowly, woodenly she obeyed. The robe dropped to the silvery piled carpet, leaving her nude. Her flesh appeared suddenly pale. Rippling tremors moved up and down her stomach.
\par      \'93Turn around,\'94 he said.
\par      With the same wooden movement, she obeyed. One of her bare feet caught the emerald belt. Its chain rattled.
\par      \'93Face me.\'94 Kelexel said.
\par      When she\rquote d obeyed, Kelexel released the manipulator\rquote s pressure. The tremors stopped moving across her stomach. She took a deep, ragged breath.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 How superbly graceful she is,}{\insrsid11485343  Kelexel thought.
\par      Without taking her gaze from him, Ruth bent, picked up the robe, slipped into it, belted it.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 There!}{\insrsid11485343  she thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 I\rquote ve resisted him. I\rquote ve asserted myself at last. It\rquote ll be easier next time.}{\insrsid11485343  And she remembered the sodden pressure of th
e manipulator, the compulsion which had forced her to disrobe. Even in that extremity, she\rquote d felt the sureness that a time would come when she could resist Kelexel\rquote s manipulator no matter its pressure. There\rquote 
d be a limit to the pressure, she knew, but no limit to her growing will to resist. She had only to think of what she\rquote d seen on the pantovive to strengthen that core of resistance.
\par      \'93You\rquote re angry with me,\'94 Kelexel said. \'93Why? I\rquote ve indulged your every fancy.\'94
\par      For answer, she seated herself at the pantovive\rquote s metal webwork, moved its controls. Keys clicked. Instruments hummed.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 How deftly she uses her toy,}{\insrsid11485343  Kelexel thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 She\rquote s been at it more than I suspected. Such practiced sureness! But when has she had time to become this sure? She\rquote s neve
r used it in front of me before. I\rquote ve seen her each rest period. Perhaps time moves at a different rate for mortals. How long to her has she been with me? A quarter of her sun\rquote s circuit or maybe a bit more.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      He wondered then how she really felt about t
he offspring within her body. Primitives felt many things about their bodies, knew many things without recourse to instruments. Some wild sense they had which spoke to them from within. Could the potential offspring be why she was angered?
\par      \'93Look,\'94 Ruth said.
\par      Kelexel sat upright, focused on the pantovive\rquote s image stage, the glowing oval where Fraffin\rquote s almost-people performed. Figures moved there, the gross wild Chem. Kelexel was suddenly reminded of a comment he\rquote d heard about Fraffin
\rquote s productions \endash  \'94Their reverse dollhouse quality.\'94 Yes, his }{\i\insrsid11485343 creatures}{\insrsid11485343  always managed to seem emotionally as well as physically larger than life.
\par      \'93These are relatives of mine,\'94 Ruth said. \'93My father\rquote s brother and sister. They came out for the trial. This is their motel room.\'94
\par      \'93Motel?\'94 Kelexel slipped off the bed, crossed to stand beside Ruth.
\par      \'93Temporary housing,\'94 she said. She sat down at the controls.
\par      Kelexel studied the stage. Its bubble of light contained a room of faded maroon. A thin, straw-haired female sat on the edge of a bed at the right. She wore a pink dressing gown. One heavily veined hand dabbed a damp handkerchief at her eyes. Like th
e furniture, she appeared faded-dull eyes, sagging cheeks. In the general shape of her head and body, she resembled Ruth\rquote s father. Kelexel wondered then if Ruth would come to this one day. Surely not. The strange female\rquote 
s eyes peered from deep sockets beneath thin brows.
\par      A man stood facing her, his back to the viewers.
\par      \'93Now, Claudie,\'94 the man said, \'93there\rquote s no sense \'85\'94
\par      \'93I just can\rquote t help remembering,\'94 she said. A sob in her voice.
\par      Kelexel swallowed. His body drank emotional identification with the creatures in the pantovive. It was uncanny \endash  repellant and at once magnetic. The pantovive\rquote 
s sensimesh web projected a cloying sweet emotion from the woman. It was stifling.
\par      \'93I remember one time on the farm near Marion,\'94 she said. \'93Joey was about three that night we was sitting on the porch after the preacher\rquote 
d been there to dinner. Paw was wondering out loud how he could get that twelve acres down by the creek.\'94
\par      \'93He was always wondering that.\'94
\par      \'93And Joey said he had to go toi-toi.\'94
\par      \'93That danged outhouse,\'94 Grant said.
\par      \'93Remember them narrow boards across the mud? Joey was still wearing that white suit Ma\rquote d made for him.\'94
\par      \'93Claudie, what\rquote s the use remembering all \'85\'94
\par      \'93You remember that night?\'94
\par      \'93Claudie, that was a long time ago.\'94
\par      \'93I remember it. Joey asked all around for someone to go out with him across them boards, but Paw said for him to git along. What\rquote s he scared of?\'94
\par      \'93Doggone, Claudie, you sound like Paw sometimes.\'94
\par      \'93I remember Joey going out there all by hisself \endash  a little white blot like in the dark. Then Paw yipped: \lquote Joey! Look out for that buck nigger ahint you!\rquote \'94
\par      \'93And Joey ran!\'94 Grant said. \'93I remember.\'94
\par      \'93And he slipped off into the mud.\'94
\par      \'93He come back all dirty,\'94 Grant said, \'93I remember.\'94 He chuckled.
\par      \'93And when Paw found out he\rquote d wet hisself, too, he went and got the razor strop.\'94 Her voice softened. \'93Joey was such a little feller.\'94
\par      \'93Paw was a strict one, all right.\'94
\par      \'93Funny the things you remember sometimes,\'94 she said.
\par      Grant moved across to a window, picked at the maroon drapery. Turning, he revealed his face-the same fine bone structure as Ruth, but with heavy flesh over it A sharp line crossed his forehead where a hat had been worn, the face dark beneath 
it, light above. His eyes appeared hidden in shadowed holes. The hand at the drapery was darkly veined.
\par      \'93This is real dry country,\'94 he said. \'93Nothing ever looks green out here.\'94
\par      \'93I wonder why he done it?\'94 Claudie asked.
\par      Grant shrugged. \'93He was a strange one, that Joey.\'94
\par      \'93Listen to you,\'94 she said. }{\i\insrsid11485343 \'93Was}{\insrsid11485343  a strange one. Already talking like he was dead.\'94
\par      \'93I guess he is, Claudie. Just as good as.\'94 He shook his head. \'93Either dead or committed to an insane asylum. Same thing really when they stick you away like that\'94
\par      \'93I heard you talk plenty about what happened when we was kids,\'94 she said. \'93You figure that had anything to do with him going \'85 like this?\'94
\par      \'93What had anything to do with it?\'94
\par      \'93The way Paw treated him.\'94
\par      Grant found a loose thread in the drapery. He pulled it out, rolled it between his fingers. The sensimesh web projected a feeling of long-repressed anger from him.
\par      (Kelexel wondered then why Ruth showed him this scene. He understood in a way the pain she must feel at seeing this, but how could she blame }{\i\insrsid11485343 him}{\insrsid11485343  or be angry at }{\i\insrsid11485343 him}{\insrsid11485343 
 for this? What had happened to her parents \'85 that\rquote d been Fraffin\rquote s doing.)
\par      \'93That time we went to the county fair to hear the darky singers,\'94 Grant said. \'93In the mule wagon, remember? Joey didn\rquote t want to come along. He was mad at Paw for something, but Paw said he was too young to leave at home alone.\'94

\par      \'93He must\rquote ve been all of nine then,\'94 she said.
\par      Grant went on as though he hadn\rquote t heard. \'93Then when Joey refused to leave the wagon, remember? Paw says: \lquote Come along, boy. Don\rquote t you want to hear them niggers?\rquote  And Joey says: \lquote I guess I\rquote 
ll stay with the mules and wagon.\rquote \'94
\par      Claudie nodded.
\par      Another thread came out of the drapery into Grant\rquote s hand. He said: \'93I heard you plenty of times when you didn\rquote t want to go someplace say: \lquote Guess I\rquote ll stay with the mules and wagon.\rquote 
 We had half the county saying it.\'94
\par      \'93Joey was like that,\'94 she said. \'93Always wanting to be alone.\'94
\par      Grant\rquote s lips formed a harsh smile. \'93Everything seemed to happen to Joey.\'94
\par      \'93Was you there when he ran away?\'94
\par      \'93Yep. That was after you was married, wasn\rquote t it? Paw sold Joey\rquote s horse that he\rquote d worked all summer cutting wood to buy from old Poor-John Weeks, Ned Tolliver\rquote s brother-in-law.\'94
\par      \'93Did you see the ruckus?\'94
\par      \'93I was right there. Joey called Paw a liar and a cheat and a thief. Paw went to reach for the white oak club, but Joey was quicker. He must\rquote ve been seventeen then, and strong. He brung that club down on Paw\rquote s head like he
 wanted to kill him. Paw went down like a pole-axed steer. Joey ripped the money Paw\rquote d got for the horse outen his pocket, ran upstairs, packed the gladstone and left.\'94
\par      \'93That was a terrible thing,\'94 she said.
\par      Grant nodded. \'93Long as I live I\rquote ll remember, that boy standing there on the porch, that bag in his hand and holding that screen door. Maw was sobbing over Paw, dabbing at his head with a wet towel. Joey spoke so low we\rquote d never
\rquote ve heard if we hadn\rquote t all been so scared and quiet. We thought Paw was dead for sure.\'94
\par      \'93\lquote I hope I never see any of you ever again,\rquote  Joey says. And he run off.\'94
\par      \'93He had Paw\rquote s temper and that\rquote s for sure,\'94 Claudie said.
\par      Ruth slapped the pantovive cutoff. The images faded. She turned, her face composed and blank from the pressures of the manipulator, but there were tear stains down her cheeks.
\par      \'93I must know something,\'94 she said. \'93Did you Chem do that to my father? Did you \'85 make him that way?\'94
\par      Kelexel recalled Fraffin boasting how the killer had been }{\i\insrsid11485343 prepared \'85}{\insrsid11485343 
 boasting and explaining how an Investigator from the Primacy stood no chance to escape the traps of this world. But why waste concern over a few suborders demeaned and shaped to Chem needs? Precisely because they were }{\i\insrsid11485343 not}{
\insrsid11485343  suborders. They were wild Chem.
\par      \'93You did, I see,\'94 Ruth said. \'93I suspected it from what you\rquote ve told me.\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Am I so transparent to her?}{\insrsid11485343  Kelexel asked himself. }{\i\insrsid11485343 How did she know that? What strange powers do these natives have?}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      He covered his confusion with a shrug.
\par      \'93I wish you could die,\'94 Ruth said. \'93I want you to die.\'94
\par      Despite the manipulator\rquote s pressure on her, Ruth could feel rage deep inside her, remote but distinct, a burning and smoldering anger that made her want to reach out and waste her fingernails clawing at this Chem\rquote s impervious skin.

\par      Ruth\rquote s voice had come out so level and flat that Kelexel found he\rquote d heard the words and almost passed over them before he absorbed their meaning. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Die! She wished him dead!}{\insrsid11485343  He recoiled. }{
\i\insrsid11485343 What a boorish, outrageous thing for her to say!}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93I am a Chem,\'94 he said. \'93How dare you say such a thing to a Chem?\'94
\par      \'93You really don\rquote t know, do you?\'94 she asked.
\par      \'93I\rquote ve smiled upon you, brought you into my society,\'94 he said. \'93Is this your gratitude?\'94 Kelexel slipped off the bed, crossed the room.
\par      She glanced around her prison room, focused on his face \endash  the silvery skin dull and metallic, the features drawn into a sharp frown of disdain. Kelexel\rquote s position standing beside her chair put him only s
lightly above her and she could see the dark hairs quivering in his nostrils as he breathed.
\par      \'93I almost pity you,\'94 she said.
\par      Kelexel swallowed. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Pity?}{\insrsid11485343  Her reaction was unnerving. He looked down at his hands, was surprised to find them clasped tightly together. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Pity?}{\insrsid11485343 
 Slowly, he separated his fingers, noting how the nails were getting that foggy warning look, the reaction from breeding. Reproducing itself, his body had set the clock of flesh ticking. Rejuvenation was needed, and that soon. Was this wh
y she pitied him, because he\rquote d delayed his rejuvenation? No; she couldn\rquote t know of the Chem subservience to the Rejuvenators.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Delay \'85 delay}{\insrsid11485343  \'85 }{\i\insrsid11485343 why am I delaying?}{\insrsid11485343  Kelexel wondered.
\par      Suddenly, he marveled at himself \endash  his own bravery and daring. He\rquote d let himself go far beyond the point where other Chem went racing for the Rejuvenators. He\rquote 
d done this thing almost deliberately, he knew, toying with sensations of mortality. What other Chem would\rquote ve dared. They were cowards all! He was almost like Ruth in this. Almost mortal! And here she railed at him! She didn\rquote 
t understand. How could she, poor creature?
\par      A wave of self-pity washed through him. How could anyone understand this? Who even knew? His fellow Chem would all assume he\rquote d availed himself of a Rejuvenator when he\rquote d needed it. No one understood.
\par      Kelexel hesitated on the verge of telling Ruth this daring thing he\rquote d done, but he remembered her words. She wished him dead.
\par      \'93How can I show you?\'94 Ruth asked. Again, she turned to the pantovive
, adjusted its controls. This disgusting machine, product of the disgusting Chem, was suddenly very important to her. It was the most vital thing in her life at this moment to show Kelexel why she nurtured such a seed of violent hate toward him. \'93Look,
\'94 she said.
\par      Within the pantovive\rquote s bubble of light there appeared a long room with a high desk at one end, rows of benches below it set off behind a rail, tables, another railed-off section on the right with twelve natives seated in it in various poses of
 boredom. The side walls held spaced Grecian columns separated by dark wood paneling and tall windows. Morning sunlight poured in the windows. Behind the high desk sat a round ball of a man in black robes, bald pod of head bent forward into the light.

\par      Kelexel found he recognized some of the natives seated at the tables below the high desk. There was the squat figure of Joe Murphey, Ruth\rquote s parent, and there was Bondelli, the legal expert he\rquote d seen in Fraffin\rquote 
s story rushes-narrow face, black hair combed back in beetle wings. In chairs immediately behind the railing there were the witch doctors, Whelye and Thurlow.
\par      Thurlow interested Kelexel. Why had she chosen a scene containing that native male? Was it true that she\rquote d have mated with this creature?
\par      \'93That\rquote s Judge Grimm,\'94 Ruth said, indicating the man in the black robes. \'93I \'85 I went to school with his daughter. Do you know that? I\rquote ve \'85 been in his home.\'94
\par      Kelexel heard the sounds of distress in her voice, considered a higher setting on the ma
nipulator, decided against it. That might introduce too much inhibition for her to continue. He found himself intensely curious now as to what Ruth was doing. What could her motives be?
\par      \'93The man with the cane there at the left, at that table, that\rquote s Paret, the District Attorney,\'94 Ruth said. \'93His wife and my mother were in the same garden club.\'94
\par      Kelexel looked at the native she\rquote d indicated. There was a look of solidness and integrity about him. Iron gray hair topped a squarish head. The hair made a
 straight line across his forehead and was trimmed closely above prominent ears. The chin had a forward thrust. The mouth was a prim, neat modulation on the way to a solid nose. The brows were bushy brown ovals above blue eyes. At their outer edges, the e
yes made a slight downward slant accented by deep creases.
\par      The cane leaned against the table beside his chair. Now and again, Paret touched its knobbed top.
\par      Something important appeared to be happening in this room now. Ruth turned up the sound and there came a noise of coughing from the ranked spectators, a hissing sound as papers were shuffled.
\par      Kelexel leaned forward, a hand on the back of Ruth\rquote s chair, staring as Thurlow arose and went to a chair beside the high desk. There was a brief reli
gious rite involving truthfulness and Thurlow was seated, the legal expert, Bondelli, standing below him.
\par      Kelexel studied Thurlow \endash  the wide forehead, the dark hair. Without the manipulator, would Ruth prefer this creature? Thurlow gave the impression
 of crouching behind his dark glasses. There was an aura of shifting uneasiness about him. He was refusing to look in a particular place. It came over Kelexel that Thurlow was avoiding Fraffin\rquote 
s shooting crew in this scene. He was aware of the Chem! Of course! He was immune.
\par      A sense of duty returned momentarily to Kelexel then. He felt shame, guilt. And he knew quite suddenly why he hadn\rquote t gone to one of the storyship\rquote s Rejuvenators. Once he did that, he\rquote d be committed finally to Fraffin\rquote 
s trap. He\rquote d be one of them, owned by Fraffin as certainly as any native of this world. As long as he put it off, Kelexel knew he was just that much free of Fraffin. It was only a matter of time, though.
\par      Bondelli was speaking to Thurlow now and it seemed a tired, useless little scene. Kelexel wondered at his reaction.
\par      \'93Now, Dr. Thurlow,\'94 Bondelli said, \'93you\rquote ve enumerated the points this defendant has in common with other insane killers. What else leads you to the conclusion that he is in fact insane?\'94
\par      \'93I was attracted to the recurrence of the number seven,\'94 Thurlow said. \'93Seven blows with the sword. He told the arresting officers he\rquote d be out in seven minutes.\'94
\par      \'93Is this important?\'94
\par      \'93Seven has religious significance: the Lord made the world in seven days, and so on. It\rquote s the kind of tiling you find dominant in the actions of the insane.\'94
\par      \'93Did you, Dr. Thurlow, examine this defendant some months ago?\'94
\par      \'93Yes, sir.\'94
\par      \'93Under what circumstances?\'94
\par      Kelexel glanced at Ruth, noted with a sense of shock the tears streaming down her cheeks. He looked at the manipulator\rquote s setting and began to understand how profound her emotions must be.
\par      \'93Mr. Murphey had turned in a false fire alarm,\'94 Thurlow said. \'93He was identified and arrested. I was called in as court psychologist.\'94
\par      \'93Why?\'94
\par      \'93False fire alarms are not a thing to be disregarded, especially when turned in by a man well along in his adult years.\'94
\par      \'93This is why you were called in?\'94
\par      \'93No \endash  that was routine, more or less.\'94
\par      \'93But what\rquote s the significance of the false fire alarm?\'94
\par      \'93It\rquote s sexual, basically. This incident occurred at about the time this defendant first complained of sexual impotency. These two things, taken together, paint a very disturbing psychological picture.\'94
\par      \'93How is that?\'94
\par      \'93Well, he also displayed an almost complete lack of warmth in his nature. It was a failing in those things we usually refer to as }{\i\insrsid11485343 kindly.}{\insrsid11485343  He produced Rorschach responses at that t
ime which were almost completely lacking in those elements we refer to as }{\i\insrsid11485343 alive.}{\insrsid11485343 
 In other words, his outlook was centered on death. I took all of those things into consideration: a cold nature centered on death plus sexual disturbance.\'94
\par      Kelexel stared at the figure on the pantovive\rquote s stage. Who was he talking about? Cold, centered on death, sexually disturbed. Kelexel glanced at the figure of Murphey. The defendant sat huddled over his table, eyes downcast.
\par      Bondelli ran a finger along his mustache, glanced at a note in his hand.
\par      \'93What was the substance of your report to the Probation Department, doctor?\'94 Bondelli asked. As he spoke, he looked at Judge Grimm.
\par      \'93I warned them that unless he changed his ways radically, this man was headed for a psychotic break.\'94
\par      Still without looking at Thurlow, Bondelli asked: \'93And would you define psychotic break, doctor?\'94
\par      \'93By example \endash  a sword slaying of a loved one using violence and wild passion is a psychotic break.\'94
\par      Judge Grimm scribbled on a piece of paper in front of him. A woman juror on the far right frowned at Bondelli.
\par      \'93You predicted this crime?\'94 Bondelli asked.
\par      \'93In a real sense \endash  yes.\'94
\par      The District Attorney was watching the jury. He shook his head slowly, leaned over to whisper to an aide.
\par      \'93Was any action taken on your report?\'94 Bondelli asked.
\par      \'93To my knowledge, none.\'94
\par      \'93Well, why not?\'94
\par      \'93Perhaps many of those who saw the report weren\rquote t aware of the dangers involved in the terms.\'94
\par      \'93Did you attempt to impress the sense of danger upon anyone?\'94
\par      \'93I explained my worries to several members of the Probation Department\'94
\par      \'93And still no action was taken?\'94
\par      \'93They said that surely Mr. Murphey, an important member of the community, couldn\rquote t be dangerous, that possibly I was mistaken.\'94
\par      \'93I see. Did you make any personal effort to help this defendant?\'94
\par      \'93I attempted to interest him in religion.\'94
\par      \'93Without success?\'94
\par      \'93That\rquote s right.\'94
\par      \'93Have you examined defendant recently?\'94
\par      \'93Last Wednesday-which was my second examination of him since he was arrested.\'94
\par      \'93And what did you find?\'94
\par      \'93He\rquote s suffering from a condition I\rquote d define as a paranoid state.\'94
\par      \'93Could he have known the nature and consequences of his act?\'94
\par      \'93No, sir. His mental condition would\rquote ve been such as to override any considerations of law or morality.\'94
\par      Bondelli turned away, stared for a long moment at the District Attorney, then: \'93That is all, doctor.\'94
\par      The District Attorney passed a finger across the squared-off hairline of his forehead, studied his notes on the testimony.
\par      Kelexel, absorbed in the intricacies of the scene, nodded to himself. The natives obviously had a rudimentary legal system and sense of justice, but it was all very crude. Still, it reminded him of his own guilt. }{\i\insrsid11485343 
Could that be why Ruth showed him this?}{\insrsid11485343  he wondered. Was she saying: \'93You, too, could be punished\'94? A paroxysm of shame convulsed him then. He felt that somehow Ruth had put him on trial here, placed him by pr
oxy in that room of judgment which the pantovive reproduced. He suddenly identified with her father, sharing the native\rquote s emotion through the pantovive\rquote s sensimesh web.
\par      And Murphey was seated in silent rage, the emotion directed with violent intensity against Thurlow who still sat in the witness chair.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 That immune must be destroyed!}{\insrsid11485343  Kelexel thought.
\par      The pantovive\rquote s image focus shifted slightly, centered on the District Attorney. Paret arose, limped to a position below Thurlow, leaned on the cane. Paret\rquote 
s narrow mouth was held in a thin look of primness, but anger smoldered from the eyes.
\par      \'93Mr. Thurlow,\'94 he said, pointedly withholding the title of doctor. \'93Am I correct in assuming that, in your opinion, defendant was incapable of determining right from wrong on the night he killed his wife?\'94
\par      Thurlow removed his glasses. His eyes appeared gray and defenseless without them. He wiped the lenses, replaced them, dropped his hands to his lap. \'93Yes, sir.\'94
\par      \'93And the kinds of tests you administered, were they generally the same kinds as were administered to this defendant by Dr. Whelye and those who agreed with him?\'94
\par      \'93Essentially the same \endash  inkblot, wool sorting, various other shifting tests.\'94
\par      Paret consulted his notes. \'93You\rquote ve heard Dr. Whelye testify that defendant was legally and medically sane at the time of this crime?\'94
\par      \'93I heard that testimony, sir.\'94
\par      \'93You\rquote re aware that Dr. Whelye is former police psychiatrist for the city of Los Angeles and served in the Army medical corps at the Nuremberg trials?\'94
\par      \'93I\rquote m aware of Dr. Whelye\rquote s qualifications.\'94 There was a lonely, defensive quality to Thurlow\rquote s voice that brought a twinge of sympathy to Kelexel as he watched.
\par      \'93You see what they\rquote re doing to him?\'94 Ruth asked.
\par      \'93What does it matter?\'94 Kelexel asked. But even as he spoke, Kelexel realized that Thurlow\rquote 
s fate mattered enormously. And this was precisely because Thurlow, even though he was being destroyed and knew it, was sticking to his principles. There was no doubt that Murphey was insane. He\rquote d been driven insane by Fraffin-for a purpose.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 I was}{\insrsid11485343  }{\i\insrsid11485343 that purpose,}{\insrsid11485343  Kelexel thought.
\par      \'93Then you have heard,\'94 Paret said, \'93this expert }{\i\insrsid11485343 medical}{\insrsid11485343  testimony rule out any element of organic brain damage in this case? You\rquote ve heard these qualified }{\i\insrsid11485343 medical}{
\insrsid11485343  men testify that defendant shows no manic tendencies, that he does not now suffer and never has suffered from a condition which could be legally described as insanity?\'94
\par      \'93Yes, sir.\'94
\par      \'93Then you can explain why you\rquote ve arrived at a conflicting opinion to these qualified }{\i\insrsid11485343 medical}{\insrsid11485343  men?\'94
\par      Thurlow uncrossed his legs, planted both feet firmly on the floor. He put his hands on the arms of his chair, leaned forward. \'93That\rquote s quite simple, sir. Ability in psychiatry and psy
chology is usually judged by results. In this case, I stake my claim to a different viewpoint on the fact that I }{\i\insrsid11485343 predicted}{\insrsid11485343  this crime.\'94
\par      Anger darkened Paret\rquote s face.
\par      Kelexel heard Ruth whispering: \'93Andy, oh, Andy \'85 oh, Andy \'85\'94 Her voice sent a sudden pain through Kelexel\rquote s breast and he hissed: \'93Be silent!\'94
\par      Again, Paret consulted his notes, then: \'93You\rquote re a psychologist, not a psychiatrist, is that correct?\'94
\par      \'93I\rquote m a clinical psychologist.\'94
\par      \'93What\rquote s the difference between a psychologist and a psychiatrist?\'94
\par      \'93A psychologist is a specialist in human behavior who does not have a medical degree. The \'85\'94
\par      \'93And you disagree with men who }{\i\insrsid11485343 do}{\insrsid11485343  have medical degrees?\'94
\par      \'93As I said previously \'85\'94
\par      \'93Ah, yes, your so-called prediction. I\rquote ve read that report, Mr. Thurlow, and I\rquote d like to ask you this: Is it not true that your probation report was couched in language which might be translated several ways \endash 
 that it was, in a word, ambiguous?\'94
\par      \'93It might be considered ambiguous only by someone who was unfamiliar with the term }{\i\insrsid11485343 psychotic break,\'94}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93Ahhh, and what is a psychotic break?\'94
\par      \'93An extremely dangerous break with reality which can lead to acts of violence such as that being considered here.\'94
\par      \'93But if there\rquote d been no crime, if this defendant had recovered from the alleged illness which you say he has, could your probation report have been construed as predicting }{\i\insrsid11485343 that?\'94}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93Not without an explanation of }{\i\insrsid11485343 why}{\insrsid11485343  he recovered.\'94
\par      \'93Let me ask this, then: Can violence have no other explanation except psychosis?\'94
\par      \'93Certainly it can, but \'85\'94
\par      \'93Is it not true that psychosis is a disputed term?\'94
\par      \'93There are differences of opinion.\'94
\par      \'93Differences such as are being evidenced here?\'94
\par      \'93Yes.\'94
\par      \'93And any given act of violence may be caused by things other than a psychosis?\'94
\par      \'93Of course.\'94 Thurlow shook his head. \'93But in a delusionary system \'85\'94
\par      \'93Delusionary?\'94 Paret snapped at the word. \'93What is delusion, Mr. Thurlow?\'94
\par      \'93Delusion? That\rquote s a kind of inner ineptness at dealing with reality.\'94
\par      \'93Reality,\'94 Paret said. And again: \'93Reality. Tell me, Mr. Thurlow, do you believe the defendant\rquote s accusations against his wife?\'94
\par      \'93I do not!\'94
\par      \'93But if defendant\rquote s accusations were real, would that change your opinion, sir, about his }{\i\insrsid11485343 delusionary}{\insrsid11485343  system?\'94
\par      \'93My opinion is based on \'85\'94
\par      \'93Yes or no, Mr. Thurlow! Answer the question!\'94
\par      \'93I }{\i\insrsid11485343 am}{\insrsid11485343  answering it!\'94 Thurlow pushed himself back in his chair, took a deep breath. \'93You\rquote re trying to blacken the reputation of a defenseless \'85\'94
\par      \'93Mr. Thurlow! My questions are aimed at whether defendant\rquote s accusations are reasonable in the light of all the evidence. I agree they cannot be proved or disproved with the principal dead, but are the accusations reasonable?\'94
\par      Thurlow swallowed, then: \'93Was it reasonable to kill, sir?\'94
\par      Paret\rquote s face darkened. His voice came out low, deadly: \'93It\rquote s time we quit playing with words, Mr. Thurlow. Will you tell the court, please, if you have any other relationship with the defendant\rquote s family than that of \'85
 psychologist?\'94
\par      Thurlow\rquote s knuckles went white as he gripped the chair arm. \'93What do you mean?\'94 he asked.
\par      \'93Were you not at one time engaged to defendant\rquote s daughter?\'94
\par      Thurlow nodded mutely.
\par      \'93Speak up,\'94 Paret said. \'93Were you?\'94
\par      \'93Yes.\'94
\par      At the defense table, Bondelli stood up, glared at Paret, looked up at the judge. \'93Your honor, I object. This line of questioning is not relevant.\'94
\par      Slowly, Paret swiveled. He leaned heavily on his cane, said: \'93Your honor, the jury has the right to know }{\i\insrsid11485343 all the}{\insrsid11485343  factors which have guided this }{\i\insrsid11485343 expert}{\insrsid11485343 
 witness in arriving at his opinion.\'94
\par      \'93What is your intention?\'94 Judge Grimm asked. He looked over Paret\rquote s head at the jury.
\par      \'93Defendant\rquote s daughter is not available for testimony, your honor. She is missing under mysterious circumstances attendant upon the death of her husband. This }{\i\insrsid11485343 expert}{\insrsid11485343  witness was in the immediate vic
inity when the husband \'85\'94
\par      \'93Your honor, I object!\'94 Bondelli pounded a fist on the table.
\par      Judge Grimm pursed his lips. He glanced down at Thurlow\rquote s profile, then at Paret. \'93What I say now I do not say as approval or as disapproval of Dr. Thurlow\rquote s 
present testimony. But I will state by way of accepting his qualifications that he is psychologist for this court. As such, he may present opinions in disagreement with the opinions of other qualified witnesses. This is the privilege of expert testimony. 
It is up to the jury to decide which experts it will accept as being the most reliable. The jury may arrive at such decision strictly on the expert qualifications of the witnesses. Objection sustained.\'94
\par      Paret shrugged. He limped a step closer to Thurlow, appeared about to speak, hesitated, then: \'93Very well. No more questions.\'94
\par      \'93Witness may stand down,\'94 the judge said.
\par      As the scene began to fade under Ruth\rquote s manipulation of the pantovive, Kelexel focused on Joe Murphey. The defendant was smiling, a sly, secretive smile.
\par      Kelexel nodded, matched that smile. Nothing was entirely lost when even the victims could share amusement at their predicament.
\par      Ruth turned, saw the smile on Kelexel\rquote s face. In her flat, controlled voice, she said: \'93God damn you for every second of your goddamn\rquote  eternity.\'94
\par      Kelexel blinked.
\par      \'93You\rquote re as crazy as my father,\'94 she said. \'93Andy\rquote s describing you when he talks about my father.\'94 She whirled back to the pantovive. \'93See yourself!\'94
\par      Kelexel took a deep, shivering breath. The pantovive screeched as Ruth twisted its controls and rapped keys.
\par      He wanted to jerk her away from the machine, fearful of what she might show him. }{\i\insrsid11485343 See myself?}{\insrsid11485343  he wondered. It was a terrifying thought. A Chem did not see himself in the pantovive!
\par      The bubble of light on the image stage became Bondelli\rquote s law office, the big desk, glass-fronted bookcases shielding the mud-red backs of law books with their gold lettering. Bondelli sat behind the desk, a pencil in his right hand. H
e pushed the pencil point down through his fingers, repeated the action with the eraser against the desk. The eraser left little rubber smudges on the polished surface.
\par      Thurlow sat across from him behind a scattering of papers. He clutched his heavy glasses like a lecturer\rquote s pointer in his left hand, waving them as he spoke.
\par      \'93The delusional system is like a mask,\'94 Thurlow said. Vertical cords smoothed and reappeared in his neck as he gestured. \'93Behind that mask, Murphey }{\i\insrsid11485343 wants}{\insrsid11485343 
 to be found sane even though he knows that this condemns him to death.\'94
\par      \'93It\rquote s not logical,\'94 Bondelli muttered.
\par      \'93And if it isn\rquote t logical it\rquote s the most difficult thing there is to prove,\'94 Thurlow said. \'93This is hard to put into words that can be understood by people who haven\rquote t had long familiarity with such things. But if Murphey
\rquote s delusional system were shattered, if we penetrated it, broke it down, this could be compared to what it would be like for an ordinary person to awaken one morning and f
ind his bed different from the one he thought he went to sleep in, the room different, a different woman saying, \lquote I\rquote m your wife!\rquote , unfamiliar youngsters claiming him as father. He\rquote 
d be overwhelmed, his whole concept of his life destroyed.\'94
\par      \'93Total unreality,\'94 Bondelli whispered.
\par      \'93Reality from the standpoint of an objective observer isn\rquote t important here,\'94 Thurlow said. \'93As long as Murphey maintains the delusional system he saves himself from the psychological equivalent of annihilation. That, of cou
rse, is the fear of death.\'94
\par      \'93Fear of death?\'94 Bondelli appeared puzzled. \'93But that\rquote s what faces him if \'85\'94
\par      \'93There\rquote re two kinds of death here. Murphey has far less fear for real death in the gas chamber than he has for the kind of death he\rquote d experience in the collapse of his delusional world.\'94
\par      \'93But can\rquote t he }{\i\insrsid11485343 see}{\insrsid11485343  the difference?\'94
\par      \'93No.\'94
\par      \'93That\rquote s crazy!\'94
\par      Thurlow appeared surprised. \'93Isn\rquote t that what we\rquote ve been saying?\'94
\par      Bondelli dropped the pencil onto the desk with a sharp click. \'93And what happens if he\rquote s judged sane?\'94
\par      \'93He\rquote d be convinced he controlled this one last piece of his misfortune. To him, insanity means loss of control. It means he\rquote s not the all great, all powerful person in control of his own destiny. If he controls e
ven his own death, this is grandeur \endash  a delusion of grandeur.\'94
\par      \'93This isn\rquote t something you can prove in a court of law,\'94 Bondelli said.
\par      \'93Especially not in this community and not right now,\'94 Thurlow said. \'93That\rquote s what I\rquote ve been trying to tell you from the beginning. You know Vauntman, my neighbor to the south? My walnut tree had a limb overhanging his yard. I
\rquote ve always let him have the nuts off it. We made a joke about it. Last night he sawed that limb off and threw it in my yard-because I\rquote m testifying for Murphey\rquote s defense.\'94
\par      \'93That\rquote s insane!\'94
\par      \'93Right now insanity is the norm,\'94 Thurlow said. He shook his head. \'93Vauntman\rquote s perfectly normal under most circumstances. But this Murphey thing\rquote s a sex crime and it\rquote s stirred up a rat\rquote s nest of unconsc
ious content \endash  guilt, fear, shame \endash  that people aren\rquote t equipped to handle. Vauntman\rquote s just one isolated symptom. The whole community\rquote s undergoing a kind of psychotic break.\'94
\par      Thurlow put on his dark glasses, turned, stared directly out of the pantovive.
\par      \'93The whole community,\'94 he whispered.
\par      Ruth reached out like a blind person, shut off the pantovive. As the stage darkened, Thurlow still stared out at her, }{\i\insrsid11485343 Goodbye, Andy,}{\insrsid11485343  she thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Dear Andy. Destroyed Andy. I\rquote 
ll never see you again.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      Abruptly, Kelexel whirled away, strode across the room. He turned there, stared at Ruth\rquote s back, cursing the day he\rquote d first seen her. }{\i\insrsid11485343 In the name of Silence!}{\insrsid11485343  he thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 
Why did I succumb to her?}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      Thurlow\rquote s words still rang in his ears \endash  }{\i\insrsid11485343 Grandeur! Delusion! Death!}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      What was it about these natives that locked on the mind and senses, refusing to let go? A rage such as he\rquote d never before experienced flooded through Kelexel then.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 How dare she say I am like her father?}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 How dare she harbor one thought for her puny native lover when she has me?}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      An odd rasping sound was coming from Ruth. Her shoulders trembled and shook. Kelexel realized she was sobbing despite the manipulator\rquote s suppression. The realization fed his rage.
\par      Slowly, she turned in the pantovive\rquote s chair, stared at him. Strange lines of grief wavered across her face. \'93Live forever!\'94 she hissed. \'93And every day you live, I hope your crime gnaws at you!\'94 The hate was stark in her eyes.

\par      A sense of dismay shook Kelexel. }{\i\insrsid11485343 How can she know of my crime?}{\insrsid11485343  he asked himself.
\par      But rage was there to support him.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 She was contaminated by that immune!}{\insrsid11485343  he thought }{\i\insrsid11485343 Let her see what a Chem can do to her lover, then!}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      With a vicious movement, Kelexel twisted the manipulator\rquote s controls beneath his tunic. The pressure, building up abruptly, jerked Ruth backward into her chair, stiffened her body then relaxed it. She slumped into unconsciousness.
\par \page 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\qc \li0\ri3389\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin3389\lin0\itap0\pararsid11485343 \b\f1\fs26\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11485343 17
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri3389\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin3389\lin0\itap0\pararsid11485343 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11485343 
\par      FRAFFIN SWEPT ONTO THE LANDING PLATFORM WITH long, angry strides, his cl
oak whipping about his bowed legs. The sea shone like dark green crystals beyond the spider lines of the enclosing field. A file of ten flitters stood ready along the gray ramp, prepared to debark on his orders, checking the status of their \'93
lovely little war.\'94 Perhaps it could still be saved. There was a biting smell of damp ozone in the air. It made the guardian layers of Fraffin\rquote s skin crawl in a protective reflex.
\par      He could sense the planet flowering for him up there, spewing forth story after story in such a profusion as it had never done before. But if the report on Kelexel were true \'85 It couldn\rquote t be true. Logic said it couldn\rquote t be true.

\par      Fraffin slowed his stride as he approached traffic control, the yellow bubble eye with Lutt, his Master-of-Craft, personally in charge. The squat, solid body of the crewman imparted a feeling of reassurance to Fraffin. Lutt\rquote 
s square face was bent over the yellow eye.
\par      There was a crafty look to Lutt, though, and Fraffin suddenly remembered Cato saying: \'93Fear kings whose slaves are crafty.\'94 Ah, there\rquote d been a native to admire \endash  Cato. And Fraffin recalled Cato\rquote 
s Carthaginian enemies, the two kings looking down from Citadel-Byrsa onto the inner harbor of Corthon. \'93Proper sacrifice, right thinking, the best gods \endash  those bring victory.\'94 Cato had said that, too.
\par      But Cato was dead, his life whirled up in the crazy time-blur that was a Chem\rquote s memory. He was dead and the two kings were dead.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Surely the report on Kelexel is wrong,}{\insrsid11485343  Fraffin thought.
\par      A waiting flitter crewman signaled Lutt. The Master-of-Craft straightened, turned to face Fraffin. An alert air of caution in the man destroyed all illusion of reassurance.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 He looks a little like Cato,}{\insrsid11485343  Fraffin thought as he stopped three paces from Lutt. }{\i\insrsid11485343 The same sort of bone structure in the face. Ah, we\rquote ve bred much of ourselves into this place.}{
\insrsid11485343  Fraffin pulled his cloak around huh, aware of a sudden chill in the air.
\par      \'93Honored director,\'94 Lutt said. How warily he spoke!
\par      \'93I\rquote ve just heard a disturbing report about the Investigator,\'94 Fraffin said.
\par      \'93The Investigator?\'94
\par      \'93Kelexel, you oaf!\'94
\par      Lutt\rquote s tongue darted out and across his lips. He glanced left, right, returned his attention to Fraffin. \'93He \'85 he said he had your permission to \'85 he had the native female with him in a tagalong floater \'85 she \'85 what is wrong?
\'94
\par      Fraffin took a moment to compose himself. There was a slackdrum throbbing through every micro-instant that lay immersed in his being. This planet and its creatures! The erection/detumescence of each instant he\rquote 
d shared with them lay on his awareness with scalding pressure. He felt like a bivalve at the tide-edge of the universe. History was collapsing within him and he could only remember the ages of his crime.
\par      \'93The Investigator is gone then?\'94 Fraffin asked, and he was proud of how calmly his voice emerged.
\par      \'93Just a short trip,\'94 Lutt whispered. \'93He said just a short trip.\'94 Lutt nodded, a swift, jerking motion full of nervousness. \'93I \'85 everyone said the Investigator\rquote d been snared. He had the female with him. She was unconscious!
\'94 Lutt pounced on this revelation as though it were a most important discovery. \'93The native female was unconscious in the flitter!\'94 A sly smile twitched Lutt\rquote s mouth. \'93The better to control her, he said.\'94
\par      Fraffin spoke through a dry mouth: \'93Did he say where?\'94
\par      \'93Planetside,\'94 Lutt hooked a thumb upward. Fraffin\rquote s eyes followed the motion, noting the warty skin, his mind filled with wonder that such a casual gesture could carry such a weight of terrifying possibilities.
\par      \'93In the needleship?\'94 Fraffin asked.
\par      \'93He said he was more familiar with its controls,\'94 Lutt said.
\par      There was a veil of fear over Lutt\rquote s eyes now. The Director\rquote s bland voice and appearance couldn\rquote t conceal the slashing purpose of these questions \endash  and there\rquote d already been one flash of anger.
\par      \'93He assured me he had your approval,\'94 Lutt rasped. \'93He said it was part of his training when he gets his own \'85\'94 The glare in Fraffin\rquote s eyes stopped him, then: \'93He said the female would enjoy it.\'94
\par      \'93But she was unconscious,\'94 Fraffin said.
\par      Lutt\rquote s head bobbed in affirmation.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Why was she unconscious?}{\insrsid11485343  Fraffin wondered. Hope began to grow in him. }{\i\insrsid11485343 What can he do? We own him! I was a fool to panic.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      Beside Lutt, the eye of the traffic control selector shifted from yellow to red, blinked twice for override. The instrument emitted a harsh buzzing and projected Ynvic\rquote s round face onto the air in front of them. The shipsurgeon\rquote 
s features were drawn into a tight mask of worry. Her eyes stared fixedly at Fraffin.
\par      \'93There you are!\'94 she snapped. Her gaze darted to Lutt, to the platform background, returned to Fraffin. \'93Has he gone?\'94
\par      \'93And taken the female with him,\'94 Fraffin said.
\par      \'93He\rquote s not been rejuvenated!\'94 Ynvic blurted.
\par      It took a long minute for Fraffin to find his voice. \'93But all the others \'85 he \'85 you \'85\'94 Again, he felt the distant slackdrum.
\par      \'93Yes, all the others went immediately to the Rejuvenator,\'94 Ynvic agreed. \'93So I assumed this one\rquote d been handled by an assistant or that Kelexel had taken care of it himself. You do!\'94 A rasp of feral anger touched her voice. \'93Who
\rquote d think otherwise? But there\rquote s not a trace of him in Master Records. He\rquote s not been rejuvenated!\'94
\par      Fraffin swallowed in a dry throat This was unthinkable! He felt himself go deathly still as though listening for the passage of suns and moons and planets his kind had all but forgotten. Not rejuvenated! The time \'85 the time \'85
 His voice came out a husky whisper: \'93It\rquote s been at least \'85\'94
\par      \'93One of my assistants saw him with the female just a short while ago and alerted me,\'94 Ynvic said. \'93Kelexel shows obvious signs of deterioration.\'94
\par      Fraffin found it difficult to breathe. His chest ached. Not rejuvenated! If Kelexel destroyed all traces of the female \'85 But he couldn\rquote t! The storyship had a complete record of the liaison with the native. But if Kelexel destroyed her \'85

\par      Lutt tugged at Fraffin\rquote s coat.
\par      In a rage, Fraffin whirled on him: \'93What do you want?\'94
\par      Lutt ducked backward, peered up at Fraffin. \'93Honored director, the intercom \'85\'94 Lutt touched the pickup instrument imbedded }{\i\insrsid11485343 in}{\insrsid11485343  the bone of his neck. \'93Kelexel\rquote 
s needleship has been seen planetside.\'94
\par      \'93Where?\'94
\par      \'93In the home region of the female.\'94
\par      \'93Do they still see him?\'94
\par      Fraffin held his breath.
\par      Lutt listened a moment, shook his head. \'93The ship was seen to pass without shields. One who saw it inquired about this breach of security. He no longer has the ship in view.\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Planetside!}{\insrsid11485343  Fraffin thought.
\par      \'93You will drop every other activity!\'94 he rasped. \'93You will order out every pilot and vehicle. That ship must be found! It must be found!\'94
\par      \'93But \'85 what do we do when we find it?\'94
\par      \'93The female,\'94 Ynvic said.
\par      Fraffin glanced at the disembodied face projected above the traffic control selector, returned his attention to Lutt. \'93Yes, the female. You\rquote ll take her into custody and return her here. She\rquote s our property. We\rquote 
ll have an understanding with this Kelexel. No nonsense, you hear?
\par      Bring her to me.\'94
\par      \'93If I can, honored director.\'94
\par      \'93You had better find a way,\'94 Fraffin said.
\par \page 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\qc \li0\ri3389\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin3389\lin0\itap0\pararsid11485343 \b\f1\fs26\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11485343 18
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri3389\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin3389\lin0\itap0\pararsid11485343 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11485343 
\par      THURLOW AWOKE AT THE FIRST CLICK OF THE ALARM clock, turned it off before it rang. He sat up in bed, fighting a deep reluctance to face this day. It\rquote 
d be hellish at the hospital, he knew. Whelye was putting on the pressure and would keep it up until \'85 Thurlow took a deep sighing breath. When it got bad enough, he knew he\rquote d quit.
\par      The community was helping him to this decision- crank letters, vicious phone calls. He was a pariah.
\par      The professionals were an odd contrast \endash  Paret and old Judge Victor Venning Grimm among them. What they did in court and what they did outside of court appeared to be held in separate, carefully insulated compartments.
\par      \'93It\rquote ll blow over,\'94 Grimm had said. \'93Give it time.\'94
\par      And Paret: \'93Well, Andy, you win some, you lose some.\'94
\par      Thurlow wondered if they had any but detached emotions about Murphey\rquote s death. Paret had been invited to the execution, and the courthouse grapevine had said he debated going. Good sense had prevailed, though. His advisors had warned again
st his appearing vindictive.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Why did I go?}{\insrsid11485343  Thurlow asked himself. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Did I want to extract the last measure of personal pain from this?}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      But he knew why he\rquote d gone, meekly accepting the condemned man\rquote s wry invitation to \'93Watch me die.\'94 It\rquote d been the lure of his own personal hallucination: Would the watchers be there, too, in their hovering craft?
\par      They \'85 or the illusion had been there.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Are they real? Are they real?}{\insrsid11485343  his mind pleaded. Then: }{\i\insrsid11485343 Ruth, where are you?}{\insrsid11485343  He felt that if she could only ret
urn with a reasonable explanation for her disappearance, the hallucinations would go.
\par      His thoughts veered back to the execution. It would take more than one long weekend to erase that memory. Recollection of the sounds bothered him \endash  the clang of meta
l against metal, the whisper-shuffling of feet as the guards came into the execution area with Murphey.
\par      The memory of the condemned man\rquote s glazed eyes lay across Thurlow\rquote s vision. Murphey had lost some of his dumpiness. The prison suit hung slackly on 
him. He walked with a heavy, dragging limp. Ahead of him walked a black-robed priest chanting in a sonorous voice that concealed an underlying whine.
\par      In his mind, Thurlow watched them pass, feeling all the spectators caught up abruptly in a spasm of silence. Every eye turned then to the executioner. He looked like a drygoods clerk, tall, bland-faced, efficient \endash 
 standing there beside the rubber-sealed door into the little green room with its eyeless portholes.
\par      The executioner took one of Murphey\rquote s arms, helped him over the hatch sill. One guard and the priest followed. Thurlow was in a line to look directly through the hatchway and hear their conversation.
\par      The guard passed a strap over Murphey\rquote s left arm, told him to sit farther back in the chair. \'93Put your hand here, Joe. A little farther this way.\'94 The guard cinched the strap. \'93Does that strap hurt?\'94
\par      Murphey shook his head. His eyes remained glazed, a trapped animal look in them.
\par      The executioner looked at the guard, said: \'93Al, why don\rquote t you stay in here and hold his hand?\'94
\par      In that instant, Murphey came out of the depths to shatter Thurlow, forcing him to turn away. \'93You best stay with the mules and wagon,\'94 Murphey said.
\par      It was a phrase Thurlow had heard Ruth use \'85 many time
s, one of those odd family expressions that meant something special to the inner circle of intimates. Hearing Murphey use it then had forged a link between father and daughter that nothing could break.
\par      All else was anticlimax.
\par      Remembering that mo
ment, Thurlow sighed, swung his feet out of the bed onto the cold floor. He pulled on his slippers, donned a robe and crossed to the window. There, he stood staring at the view which had brought his father to buy this house twenty-five years before.

\par      The morning light hurt his eyes and they began to water. Thurlow took up his dark glasses from the bed-stand, slipped them on, lightened the setting to just below the pain threshold.
\par      The valley had its usual morning overcast, the redwood fog that would
 burn off sometime around eleven. Two ravens sat perched in the branches of a live oak below him calling to unseen companions. A drop of condensation spilled from an acacia leaf directly beneath the window.
\par      Beyond the tree there was motion. Thurlow turned toward it, saw a cigar-shaped object about thirty feet long lift into view. It drifted across the top of the oak, scattering the ravens. They flapped away, croaking with harsh dissonance.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 They see it!}{\insrsid11485343  Thurlow told himself. }{\i\insrsid11485343 It\rquote s real!}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      Abruptly, the thing launched itself across the sky to his left, lanced into the overcast Behind it came a covey of spheres and discs.
\par      All were swallowed by the clouds.
\par      Into the shocked stillness with which Thurlow enveloped himself there came a rasping voice: \'93You are the native, Thurlow.\'94
\par      Thurlow whirled to see an apparition in his bedroom doorway \endash  a squat, bowlegged figure in a green cape and leotards, square face, dark hair, silvery skin, a wide gash of mouth. The creature\rquote s eyes burned feverish
ly under pronounced brows.
\par      The mouth moved, and again came that harsh, resonant voice: \'93I am Kelexel.\'94 The English was clear, clipped.
\par      Thurlow stared. }{\i\insrsid11485343 A dwarf?}{\insrsid11485343  he asked himself. }{\i\insrsid11485343 A lunatic?}{\insrsid11485343  He found his mind jammed with questions.
\par      Kelexel glanced out the window behind Thurlow. It had been faintly amusing to watch Fraffin\rquote s pack go hounding after the empty needleship. The programmed automatic course couldn\rquote 
t elude the pursuers forever, of course, but by the time they caught it, all would have been accomplished here. There\rquote d be no bringing back the dead.
\par      Fraffin would have to face that \'85 and his crime.
\par      Resurgent pride firmed Kelexel\rquote s will He frowned at Thurlow, thinking: }{\i\insrsid11485343 I}{\insrsid11485343  }{\i\insrsid11485343 know my duty.}{\insrsid11485343  Ruth would waken soon, he knew, a
nd come to their voices. When she did, she could watch a supreme triumph. }{\i\insrsid11485343 She\rquote ll be proud that a Chem smiled upon her,}{\insrsid11485343  he thought.
\par      \'93I have watched you, witchdoctor,\'94 Kelexel said.
\par      A thought flickered through Thurlow\rquote s mind: }{\i\insrsid11485343 Is this some weird psychotic come to kill me because of my testimony?}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93How did you get into my house?\'94 Thurlow demanded.
\par      \'93For a Chem it was simplicity,\'94 Kelexel said.
\par      Thurlow had the sudden nightmare feeling that this creature might be connected with the objects that had flown into the clouds, with the watchers who \'85 }{\i\insrsid11485343 What is a Chem?}{\insrsid11485343  he wondered.
\par      \'93How have you watched me?\'94 Thurlow asked.
\par      \'93Your antics have been captured in \'85 in a \'85\'94 Kelexel waved a knob-knuckled hand in exasperation. It was so difficult to communicate with these creatures. \'93 \'85 in a thing like your movies,\'94 he concluded. \'93It\rquote 
s much more, of course \endash  a sensation transcript that works directly on the audience by empathic stimulation.\'94
\par      Thurlow cleared his throat. The words made only the vaguest sense, but his feelings of disquiet increased. His voice came out hoarsely: \'93Something new, no doubt.\'94
\par      \'93New?\'94 Kelexel chuckled. \'93Older than your galaxy.\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 He must be a crank,}{\insrsid11485343  Thurlow reassured himself. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Why do they always pick on psychologists?}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      But he remembered the ravens. No blandishment of logic could erase the fact that the ravens had seen these \'85 things too. Again, he asked himself: }{\i\insrsid11485343 What is a Chem?}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93You don\rquote t believe me,\'94 Kelexel said. \'93You don\rquote t }{\i\insrsid11485343 want}{\insrsid11485343  to believe me.\'94 He could fe
el relaxation seep through his body like a warm drink. Ahh, this was amusing. He saw the fascination Fraffin\rquote s people must have known once intimidating these creatures. The anger and jealousy he had directed against Thurlow began to dissipate.

\par      Thurlow swallowed. His reason directed him into outrageous channels of thought. \'93If I believed you,\'94 he said, \'93I\rquote d have to infer you were \'85 well, some kind of \'85\'94
\par      \'93Someone from another world?\'94
\par      \'93Yes.\'94
\par      Kelexel laughed. \'93The things I could do! I could frighten you into a stupor like that!\'94 He snapped his fingers.
\par      It was a solidly human gesture from this inhuman looking person. Thurlow saw it and took a deep breath. He gave a closer examination to his caller\rquote s clothes: the cape, the leotards. He looked at the oddly high-positioned ears. }{
\i\insrsid11485343 The cape could\rquote ve come front a theatrical outfitter,}{\insrsid11485343  he thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 He looks like a dwarf Bela Lugosi. Can\rquote t be over four feet tall.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      A near panic fear of his visitor shot through Thurlow then. \'93Why\rquote re you here?\'94 he demanded.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Why am I here?}{\insrsid11485343  For a moment no logical reason came to Kelexel\rquote s mind. He thought of Ruth unconscious on the tagalong in the other room. This Thurlow might\rquote 
ve been her mate. A pang of jealousy gripped Kelexel.
\par      \'93Perhaps I came to put you in your place,\'94 he said. \'93Perhaps I\rquote ll take you to my ship far above your silly planet and show you what an unimportant speck it is.\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 I must humor him,}{\insrsid11485343  Thurlow thought. He said: \'93Let\rquote s grant this isn\rquote t a joke in bad taste and you\rquote re \'85\'94
\par      \'93You don\rquote t tell a Chem he has bad taste,\'94 Kelexel said.
\par      Thurlow heard the violence in Kelexel\rquote s voice. By an effort of conscious will, he paced his breathing to an even rhythm, stared at the intruder. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Could this be the reason Ruth is gone?}{\insrsid11485343  he wondered. }{
\i\insrsid11485343 Is this one of the creatures who took her, who\rquote ve been spying on me, who watched poor Joe Murphey die, who \'85}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93I\rquote ve broken the most important laws of my society to come here,\'94 Kelexel said. \'93It astonishes me what I\rquote ve done.\'94
\par      Thurlow took off his glasses, found a handkerchief on his dresser, polished the lenses, returned them to his nose. }{\i\insrsid11485343 I must keep him talking,}{\insrsid11485343  he thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 As long as he continues to talk, he
\rquote s venting his violence.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93What is a Chem?\'94 Thurlow asked.
\par      \'93Good,\'94 Kelexel said. \'93You have normal curiosity.\'94 He began to explain the Chem in broad outline, their power, their immortality, their storyships.
\par      Still no mention of Ruth. Thurlow wondered if he dared ask about her.
\par      \'93Why have you come to me?\'94 he asked. \'93What if I told about you?\'94
\par      \'93Perhaps you\rquote ll not be able to tell about us,\'94 Kelexel said. \'93And who\rquote d believe you if you did?\'94
\par      Thurlow focused on the threat Granting that this Kelexel was who he said he was, then here was profound danger. Who could stand against such a creature. Thurlow suddenly saw himself as a Sandwich Islander facing iron cannon.
\par      \'93Why\rquote re you here?\'94 he repeated.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Annoying question!}{\insrsid11485343  Kelexel thought. A momentary confusion overcame him. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Why was the witchdoctor so persistent?}{\insrsid11485343 
 But he was a witchdoctor, a primitive, and perhaps knowledgeable in mysterious ways. \'93You may know things helpful to me,\'94 he said.
\par      \'93Helpful? If you come from such an advanced civilization that you \'85\'94
\par      \'93I will question you and dispute with you,\'94 Kelexel said. \'93Perhaps something will emerge.\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Why is he here?}{\insrsid11485343  Thurlow asked himself. }{\i\insrsid11485343 If}{\insrsid11485343  }{\i\insrsid11485343 he\rquote s what he says he is \'85 why?}{\insrsid11485343  Bits of Kelexel\rquote 
s phrases sorted themselves through Thurlow\rquote s awareness. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Immortal. Storyships. Search for amusement. Nemesis boredom. Immortal. Immortal. Immortal \'85 Boredom!}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      Thurlow\rquote s stare began to rasp on Kelexel. \'93You doubt your sanity, eh?\'94 Kelexel asked.
\par      \'93Is that why you\rquote re here?\'94 Thurlow asked. \'93Because you doubt your sanity?\'94 It was the wrong thing to say and Thurlow knew it the moment the words were out of his mouth.
\par      \'93How dare you?\'94 Kelexel demanded. }{\i\insrsid11485343 \'93My}{\insrsid11485343  civilization monitors the sanity of all its members. The orderliness of our neural content is insured by the original setting to Tiggywaugh\rquote 
s web when the infant receives the gift of immortality.\'94
\par      \'93Tiggy \'85 Tiggywaugh\rquote s web?\'94 Thurlow asked. \'93A \'85 a mechanical device?\'94
\par      \'93Mechanical? Well \'85 yes.\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Great heavens!}{\insrsid11485343  Thurlow thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Is he here to promote some wild psychoanalytic machine? Is this just a promotion scheme?}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93The web links all Chem,\'94 Kelexel said. \'93We\rquote re the daoine-sithe, you understand? The many who are one. This gives us insights you couldn\rquote t imagine, poor creature. It makes the storyships possible. You h
ave nothing like it and you\rquote re blind.\'94
\par      Thurlow suppressed a feeling of outrage. }{\i\insrsid11485343 A mechanical device!}{\insrsid11485343  Didn\rquote t the poor fool realize he was talking to a psychologist? Thurlow put aside anger, knowing he couldn\rquote t afford it, said: \'93
Am I blind? Perhaps. But not so blind I\rquote m unable to see that any mechanical psychoanalytic device is a useless crutch.\'94
\par      \'93Oh?\'94 Kelexel found this an astonishing statement. }{\i\insrsid11485343 A useless crutch? The web?}{\insrsid11485343  \'93You understand people without such things, eh?\'94 he asked.
\par      \'93I\rquote ve had a fair amount of success at it,\'94 Thurlow said.
\par      Kelexel took a step into the room, another. He peered up at Thurlow. On the evidence, the native }{\i\insrsid11485343 did}{\insrsid11485343  understand his own kind. Perhaps this wasn\rquote 
t an idle boast. But could he also see into the Chem, understand them? \'93What do you see in me?\'94 he asked.
\par      Thurlow studied the oddly squared-off, sensitive face. There\rquote d been pathos, a pleading in that question. The answer must be gentle. \'93Perhaps,\'94 he said, \'93you\rquote ve played a part so long that you\rquote ve almost }{
\i\insrsid11485343 become}{\insrsid11485343  that part.\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Played a part?}{\insrsid11485343  Kelexel wondered. He searched for other meaning in the words. Nothing came to him. He said: \'93My mechanical device has no human failures.\'94
\par      \'93How safe that must make the future,\'94 Thurlow said. \'93How full of certainty. Then why are you here?\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Why am I here?}{\insrsid11485343  Kelexel wondered. He could see now that the reasons he\rquote d given himself were mere rationalizations. He began to regret this confrontation, felt a sense of naked exposure before Thurlow. 
\'93An immortal Chem doesn\rquote t have to give reasons,\'94 he said.
\par      \'93Are you truly immortal?\'94
\par      \'93Yes!\'94
\par      Suddenly, Thurlow believed him without reservation. There was something about this intruder, some outrageous qual
ity of person that belied pretense and sham. As abruptly, Thurlow realized why Kelexel had come here. Knowing this, he wondered how he could tell the creature.
\par      \'93Immortal,\'94 Thurlow said. \'93I know why you\rquote re here. You\rquote re drunk on too much living. You\rquote re like a person climbing a sheer cliff. The higher you climb, the farther it is to fall \endash 
 but oh how attractive the depths seem. You came here because you fear an accident\'94
\par      Kelexel focused on the one word: }{\i\insrsid11485343 Accident!}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93There\rquote s no such thing as an accident for a Chem,\'94 he sneered. \'93The Chem is human and intelligent Original intelligence may\rquote 
ve been an accident, but nothing after that is an accident. Everything that happens to a Chem from the day he\rquote s taken from his vat is what he sets out to accomplish.\'94
\par      \'93How orderly,\'94 Thurlow said.
\par      \'93Of course!\'94
\par      \'93Such an ultimate neatness,\'94 Thurlow said. \'93When you do that to a garment, you take the life out of it Neatness! Do that to a person and he\rquote ll live a life like an epigram \'85 that\rquote s proved wrong after his death.\'94
\par      \'93But }{\i\insrsid11485343 we}{\insrsid11485343  do not die!\'94
\par      Kelexel began to chuckle. This Thurlow was, after all, so transparent and easy to best in an argument Kelexel controlled his chuckling, said: \'93We are mature beings who \'85\'94
\par      \'93You\rquote re not mature,\'94 Thurlow said.
\par      Kelexel glared at him, remembering that Fraffin had said this same thing. \'93We }{\i\insrsid11485343 use}{\insrsid11485343  your kind for our amusement,\'94 he said. \'93We can live your lives vicariously without a \'85\'94
\par      \'93You came here to ask about death, to play with death,\'94 Thurlow said, blurting it out \'93You want to die and you\rquote re afraid to die!\'94
\par      Kelexel swallowed, stared at Thurlow in shock. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Yes,}{\insrsid11485343  he thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 That\rquote s why I\rquote m here. And this witch doctor has seen through me.}{\insrsid11485343 
 Almost of itself, his head executed a betraying nod.
\par      \'93Your mechanical device is a closed circle, a snake with its tail in its mouth,\'94 Thurlow said.
\par      Kelexel found the will to protest: \'93We live forever by its psychological truth!\'94
\par      \'93Psychological truth!\'94 Thurlow said. \lquote That\rquote s whatever you say it is.\'94
\par      \'93We\rquote re so far ahead of you primitive \'85\'94
\par      \'93Then why\rquote re you here asking help from a primitive?\'94
\par      Kelexel shook his head. An oppressive sense of danger came over him. \'93You\rquote ve never seen the web at work,\'94 he said. \'93How can you \'85\'94
\par      \'93I\rquote ve seen you,\'94 Thurlow said. \'93And I know that any }{\i\insrsid11485343 school}{\insrsid11485343  based on mechanism is a closed circle of limited logic. The truth can\rquote t be enclosed in a circle. The truth\rquote 
s like countless lines radiating outward to take in a greater and ever greater space.\'94
\par      Kelexel felt himself fascinated by the movements of Thurlow\rquote s mouth. Scalding words dripped from that mouth. More than ever, Kelexel was sorry he\rquote 
d come here. He could feel a shying away within himself, as though he stood before a closed door that might open any moment onto horror.
\par      \'93In time, a curious thing happens to such schools,\'94 Thurlow said. \'93Your foundation philosophy begins to circle away from its original straight line. You\rquote re close at first. The error isn\rquote t recognized. You think you\rquote 
re still on course. And you swing farther and farther afield until the effort to devise new theorems to explain the preceding ones becomes more and more frantic.\'94
\par      \'93We\rquote re totally successful,\'94 Kelexel protested. \'93Your argument doesn\rquote t apply to us.\'94
\par      \'93Past success based on past truth isn\rquote t proof conclusive of a continuing success of continuing truth,\'94 Thurlow said. \'93We never actually attain a thing. We merely approach various conditions. Every word you\rquote 
ve said about your Chem society betrays you. You think you have the ultimate answers. But }{\i\insrsid11485343 you}{\insrsid11485343  are here. You feel trapped. You know unconsciously that you\rquote 
re in a fixed system, unable to escape, forced to circle endlessly \'85 until you fall.\'94
\par      \'93We\rquote ll never fall.\'94
\par      \'93Then why have you come to me?\'94
\par      \'93I \'85 I \'85\'94
\par      \'93People who follow a fixed system are like processional caterpillars,\'94 Thurlow said. \'93
They follow the leader, always follow the leader, led on by the slime trail of the one ahead. But the leader comes on the trail of the last one in line and you\rquote re trapped. The trail g
rows thicker and thicker with your excrescence as you continue around and around the same path. And the excrescence is pointed out as verification that you\rquote re on the right track! You live forever! You\rquote re immortal!\'94
\par      \'93We are!\'94
\par      Thurlow lowered his voice, noting how Kelexel hung on every word. \'93And the path always appears straight,\'94 Thurlow said. \'93You see so little of it at a time, you don\rquote 
t notice when it curves back upon itself. You still see it as straight.\'94
\par      \'93Such wisdom!\'94 Kelexel sneered. \'93It didn\rquote t save your precious madman, your precious Joe Murphey!\'94
\par      Thurlow swallowed. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Why am I arguing with this creature?}{\insrsid11485343  he wondered. }{\i\insrsid11485343 What button did he push to set me going like this?}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      \'93Did it?\'94 Kelexel demanded, pressing his advantage.
\par      Thurlow sighed. \'93Another vicious circle,\'94 he said. \'93We\rquote re still figuratively burning the Jews because they spread the plague. Each of us is both Cain and Abel. We throw stones at Murphey because he\rquote 
s the side we rejected. He was more Cain than Abel.\'94
\par      \'93You\rquote ve a rudimentary sense of right and wrong,\'94 Kelexel said. \'93Was it wrong to \'85 }{\i\insrsid11485343 extinguish}{\insrsid11485343  this Murphey?\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Oh, God!}{\insrsid11485343  Thurlow thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Right and wrong! Nature and consequences!}{\insrsid11485343  \'93It\rquote s not a question of right and wrong!\'94 he said. \'93Thi
s was a reaction right out of the depths. It was like \'85 the tide \'85 or a hurricane. It\rquote s \'85 when it is, it }{\i\insrsid11485343 is!\'94}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      Kelexel stared around the primitive room, noting the bed, the objects on the dresser \endash  a picture of Ruth! How dare he keep a reminder of her?
 But who had better right? This room was a terrible, alien place suddenly. He wanted to be far away from it. But where could he go?
\par      \'93You came here searching for a better psychological philosophy,\'94 Thurlow said, \'93not realizing that all such philosophies are blind alleys, little wormholes in an ancient structure.\'94
\par      \'93But you\rquote re \'85 you\rquote re \'85\'94
\par      \'93Who should know more about such wormholes than one of the worms?\'94 Thurlow asked.
\par      Kelexel wet his lips with his tongue. \'93There must be perfection somewhere,\'94 he whispered.
\par      \'93Must there? What would it be? Postulate a perfect psychology and an individual brought to perfection within such a system. You\rquote d walk around in your never ending perfect circle until one day you found to your horror that the circle wasn
\rquote t perfect! It can end!\'94
\par      Kelexel became extremely conscious of every clock-ticking sound in the room.
\par      \'93Extinction,\'94 Thurlow said. \'93Therein lies the end of your perfection, and fallacy }{\i\insrsid11485343 in}{\insrsid11485343  Eden. When your perfect psychology has cured your perfect subject, it still leaves him within the perfect circle 
\'85 alone.\'94 He nodded. \'93And afraid.\'94 He studied Kelexel, noting how the creature trembled. \'93You came here because you\rquote re terrified by the thing that attracts you. You hoped I had some panacea, some primitive word of advice.\'94
\par      \'93Yes,\'94 Kelexel said. \'93But what could you have?\'94 He blinked. \'93You\rquote re \'85\'94 He gestured at the room, unable to find words to express the poverty of this native\rquote s existence.
\par      \'93You\rquote ve helped me reach a decision and that\rquote s a great favor for which I thank you,\'94 Thurlow said. \'93If I was put here on earth to enjoy myself, that\rquote 
s what I intend to do. If I was put here at the whim of some superbeing who wants to watch me squirm-I\rquote m not giving him the satisfaction!\'94
\par      \'93Is there a superbeing?\'94 Kelexel whispered. \'93What is there after \'85 after \'85\'94
\par      \'93With such dignity as I can muster, I look forward to finding out \'85 for myself,\'94 Thurlow said. \'93That\rquote s my choice, my decision. I think it\rquote ll leave me more time for living. I don\rquote t think time g
ives you any rest from this decision until you\rquote ve made it.\'94
\par      Kelexel looked at his hands, the telltale fingernails, the puckered skin. \'93I live,\'94 he said. \'93Yet I live.\'94
\par      \'93But you haven\rquote t come to grips with the fact that all life\rquote s a }{\i\insrsid11485343 between}{\insrsid11485343  stage,\'94 Thurlow chided.
\par      \'93Between?\'94
\par      Thurlow nodded. He was speaking and acting from instinct now, fighting a danger whose shape he understood only vaguely. \'93Life\rquote s in motion,\'94 he said, \'93and there\rquote s just one big gamble \endash  the living itself. Only an idiot fa
ils to realize that a condemned man dies but once.\'94
\par      \'93But we don\rquote t die,\'94 Kelexel said, his voice pleading. \'93We never \'85\'94 He shook his head from side to side like a sick animal.
\par      \'93Yet there\rquote s still that cliff you\rquote re climbing,\'94 Thurlow said. \'93And remember the attractive abyss.\'94
\par      Kelexel put his hands over his eyes. In his primitive and mysterious way, the witch doctor was right \endash  hideously, implacably right.
\par      A lurching motion behind Kelexel brought Thurlow\rquote s head snapping up, his eyes focused in shock as Ruth appeared there, supporting herself against the doorway. She nicked a glance across Thurlow, down to Kelexel.
\par      \'93Ruth,\'94 Thurlow whispered.
\par      Her red hair was piled high, tied with a glittering rope of green stones. Her body was covere}{\f72\insrsid11485343 d by a long green robe belted by a golden-linked strand of square-cut cr\'e8
me-de-menthe jewels. There was an exotic strangeness about her that frightened Thurlow. He saw the bulge of her abdomen then beneath the jeweled belt, realized she was pregnant.
\par }{\insrsid11485343      \'93Ruth,\'94 he said, louder this time.
\par      She ignored him, concentrated her fury on Kelexel\rquote s back. \'93I wish you could die,\'94 she muttered. \'93Oh, how I wish you could die. Please die, Kelexel. Do it for me. Die.\'94
\par      Kelexel lowered his hands from his face, tu
rned with a slow dignity. Here she was at last, completely free, seeing him without any intervention from a manipulator. This was her reaction? This was the truth? He could feel Time running at its crazy Chem speed; all of his life behind him was a single
 heartbeat. She wanted him dead. A bile taste came into Kelexel\rquote s mouth. He, a Chem, had smiled on this mere native and she wanted him dead.
\par      What he had planned for this moment stood frozen in his mind. It still could be done, but it wouldn\rquote t be a triumph. Not in Ruth\rquote 
s eyes. He raised a pleading hand to her, dropped it. What was the use? He could read the revulsion in her eyes. This was truth.
\par      \'93Please die!\'94 she hissed.
\par      Thurlow, his face dark with anger, started across the room. \'93What have you done to her?\'94 he demanded.
\par      \'93You will stand where you are,\'94 Kelexel said, raising a palm toward Thurlow.
\par      \'93Andy! Stop!\'94 Ruth said.
\par      He obeyed. There was controlled terror in her voice.
\par      Ruth touched her abdomen. \'93This is what he did,\'94 she rasped. \'93And he killed my mother and my father and ruined you and \'85\'94
\par      \'93No violence, please,\'94 Kelexel said. \'93It\rquote s useless against me. I could obliterate you both so easily \'85\'94
\par      \'93He could, Andy,\'94 Ruth whispered.
\par      Kelexel focused on Ruth\rquote s bulging abdomen. Such an odd way to produce an offspring. \'93You don\rquote t wish me to obliterate your native friend?\'94 he asked.
\par      Mutely, she shook her head from side to side. }{\i\insrsid11485343 God! What was the crazy little monster up to? There was such a feeling of terrible power in his eyes.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      Thurlow studied Ruth. How weirdly exotic she appeared in that green robe and those big jewels. And pregnant! By this \'85 this \'85
\par      \'93How odd it is,\'94 Kelexel said. \'93Fraffin believes you can be a control factor in our development, that we can aspire to a new level of being through you-perhaps even to maturity. It may be that he is more right than he knows.\'94
\par      Kelexel looked up as Thurlow skirted him, went to Ruth.
\par      She pushed Thurlow\rquote s arm aside as he tried to put it around her shoulders. \'93What\rquote re you going to do, Kelexel?\'94 she asked. Her voice held a thrumming quality, over-controlled.
\par      \'93A thing no other immortal Chem has ever done,\'94 Kelexel said, realizing at last what had truly brought him here. And he wondered: }{\i\insrsid11485343 Have I the strength to do this?}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      He turned his back on Ruth, crossed to Thurlow\rquote s bed, hesitated, smoothed the covers fastidiously. In that instant, the weight of all the Chem rested upon his shoulders, an ominous burden loaded with everything his kind refused to accept.

\par      Seeing him at the bed, Ruth had the terrifying thought that Kelexel was about to impose the manipulator upon her, force Andy to watch them. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Oh God! Please, no!}{\insrsid11485343  she thought.
\par      Kelexel turned back to them, sat on the edge of the bed. His hands rested lightly beside him. The bed felt soft, its covers warm and fuzzy. The bed gave off a stink of native perspiration which he found oddly erotic.
\par      \'93What\rquote re you going to do?\'94 Ruth whispered.
\par      Kelexel thought: }{\i\insrsid11485343 I must not answer that question!}{\insrsid11485343  If he an
swered such questions, he knew his resolve might slip. He would do nothing important. He would accept the path of least resistance, the path which had lured his kind into their present stagnation.
\par      \'93You will both stay where you are,\'94 Kelexel said.
\par      He focused inward then, searched out the drumming center of his own heartbeat, thinking: }{\i\insrsid11485343 It should be possible. Rejuvenation teaches us every nerve and muscle, every cell in our bodies. It should be possible.}{\insrsid11485343 

\par      Thus far, his actions had no name except }{\i\insrsid11485343 it,}{\insrsid11485343  and he merely tested the possibilities. He concentrated on slowing his heartbeat.
\par      At first, there was no reaction. But presently he sensed the beat slowing, almost imperceptibly, then, as he learned control, the pace slackened with a definite downward surge. He timed the rhythm to Ruth\rquote s breathing: inhale \endash 
 one beat; exhale \endash  one beat.
\par      It skipped a beat!
\par      Uncontrolled panic shot through Kelexel. He relaxed his grip on the heartbeat, fought to restore normality. }{\i\insrsid11485343 No!}{\insrsid11485343  he thought }{\i\insrsid11485343 That isn\rquote t what I want!}{\insrsid11485343 
 But another force had him now. Fear built on fear, terror on terror. Something gigantic and crushing gripped his chest. He could see the dark abyss, imagined Thurlow\rquote s cliff with himself upon its face clutching for any handhold, scrabbling t
o stay himself from that awful plunge.
\par      Somewhere out in the foggy haze that had become his surroundings. Ruth\rquote s voice boomed at him: \'93Something\rquote s wrong with him!\'94
\par      Kelexel realized he had fallen backward onto Thurlow\rquote s bed. The pain in his chest was a molten agony now. He could feel his heart laboring within that pain: beat \endash  agony, beat \endash  agony; beat-agony \'85
\par      Slowly, he felt his hands relaxing their grip on the face of the cliff. The abyss yawned. He felt that there was a real wind past his ears as he plunged into the darkness, turning, twisting. Ruth\rquote 
s voice wailed after him to become lost in emptiness: \'93My God! He\rquote s dying!\'94
\par      Nothingness echoed upon nothingness and he thought he heard Thurlow\rquote s words: }{\i\insrsid11485343 \'93Delusion of grandeur.\'94}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      Thurlow rushed to the bed, felt for a pulse at Kelexel\rquote s temple. Nothing. The skin felt dry, smooth as metal. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Perhaps, they\rquote re not exactly like us,}{\insrsid11485343  he thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 
Maybe their pulse shows in another place.}{\insrsid11485343  He checked the right wrist. How limp and empty the hand felt! No pulse.
\par      \'93Is he really dead?\'94 Ruth whispered.
\par      \'93I think he is.\'94 Thurlow dropped the flaccid hand, looked up at her. \'93You told him to die and he did.\'94
\par      A feeling oddly like remorse shot through her then. She thought of the Chem-immortal, all that seemingly endless living come to this. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Did I kill him?}{\insrsid11485343  she wondered. And aloud: \'93Did we kill him?\'94
\par      Thurlow looked down at the still figure. He remembered the conversation with Kelexel, the Chem pleading for some kind of mystic reassurance from the primitive \'93witch doctor.\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 I gave him nothing,}{\insrsid11485343  Thurlow thought.
\par      \'93He was crazy,\'94 Ruth whispered. \'93They\rquote re all crazy.\'94
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Yes, this creature had a special kind of madness and it was dangerous,}{\insrsid11485343  Thurlow told himself. }{\i\insrsid11485343 I wa}{\insrsid11485343 s }{\i\insrsid11485343 right to deny him. He was capable of killing us.}{
\insrsid11485343 
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 All crazy?}{\insrsid11485343  Thurlow wondered. He recalled Kelexel\rquote s brief recital of Chem society. There were more of the creatures then. What would they do if they found two }{\i\insrsid11485343 natives}{
\insrsid11485343  with a dead Chem?
\par      \'93Should we do something?\'94 Ruth asked.
\par  
    Thurlow cleared his throat. What did she mean? Artificial respiration, perhaps? But he sensed madness in such action. What did he know about Chem metabolism? Futility in his eyes, Thurlow looked up at Ruth and was just in time to see two more Chem pre
ss past her.
\par      Ruth stood where the two Chem pushed her, obviously unable to move. Her face mirrored terror and defeat.
\par      But the Chem acted as though they were alone in the room. They moved Kelexel\rquote s body on the bed.
\par      Thurlow was caught by the ti
ghtly frozen looks on their faces. One, green-cloaked like Kelexel, was a bald, roundfaced female, her body solid and barrel-like. She bent over Kelexel with a gentle sureness, probing, palpitating. There was a feeling of professional sureness about her. 
The other, in a black cloak, had craggy features, a hooked nose. The skin of both was that weirdly metallic silver.
\par      Not a word passed between them while the female made her examination.
\par      Ruth stood watching as though nailed to the floor. The female was Ynvic, and Ruth remembered the sharp encounter with the shipsurgeon. The male Chem, though, was another matter, a person she\rquote 
d seen only on the room screens as Kelexel talked to him \endash  Fraffin the Director. Even Kelexel\rquote s tone had changed when speaking
 of Fraffin. Ruth knew she could never forget that haughty face. Here stood the embodiment of Chem power, the one who\rquote d killed her parents to provide a brief amusement for his people. He\rquote 
d killed countless humans for no better reason. His acts transcended brutality to a point where they no longer could be called brutal. They were acts of casual expediency, less direct even than stepping on an ant.
\par      Presently, Ynvic straightened, spoke in shiptongue: \'93He has done it. He has certainly done it.\'94 There was a blank emptiness in her voice.
\par      The sound was gibberish to Thurlow, but he sensed the horror.
\par      To Ruth, a product of storyship education imprinters, the words were as clear as English, but there were overtones of meaning which escaped her.
\par      Ynvic turned to stare at Fraffin. The look that passed between them was filled with the poignancy of defeat. They both knew what had really happened here.
\par      Fraffin sighed, shuddered. The blurred-off moment of Kelexel\rquote s death had come to him through Tiggywaugh\rquote 
s web, the Chem oneness momentarily shattered by that impossible demarcation. Feeling that death, sensing its direction, Fraffin had known the identity with terrifying sureness. Every Chem in the universe had felt it, of course, and turned in this di
rection, no doubt, but Fraffin knew that few had shared his certain knowledge of identity. It was as though he\rquote d anticipated the event.
\par      Dying, Kelexel had defeated him. Fraffin had known this even as he dashed with Ynvic for a flitter and homed on thi
s point in space. The sky up there was full of craft from the storyship, all of the crewmen afraid to come closer. Most of them had guessed who\rquote d died here, Fraffin realized. They knew the Primacy wouldn\rquote 
t rest until it identified the dead one. No Chem out there would rest until the mystery was solved.
\par      Here was the first immortal Chem to die, the first in all that crazy endless Time. This planet would soon be aswarm with the Primacy\rquote s minions, all the storyship\rquote s secrets exposed.
\par      Wild Chem! It\rquote d be an emotional blast through the Chem universe. There was no telling what might be done with these creatures.
\par      \'93What \'85 killed him?\'94 Ruth ventured, speaking shiptongue.
\par      Ynvic turned a glassy stare on her. The poor stupid female! What could she know of Chem ways? \'93He killed himself,\'94 Ynvic said, her voice soft. \'93It\rquote s the only way a Chem can die.\'94
\par      \'93What\rquote re they saying?\'94 Thurlow asked. He heard his voice come out overloud. \'93He killed himself,\'94 Ruth said. \'93That\rquote s the only way a Chem can die \'85\'94
\par      Ruth heard herself translating as though it were another person revealing this to some part of her which had been sleeping. }{\i\insrsid11485343 The only way a Chem can die \'85}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      Fraffin, hearing the exchange, felt the need to speak lest he fall into an abyss which lay within his own skull. He spoke in English to Thurlow: \'93It has never happened before. A Chem has never died before.\'94
\par      Thurlow absorbed this and thought: }{\i\insrsid11485343 You\rquote re mistaken. You have to be mistaken.}{\insrsid11485343  There would\rquote ve been other Chem deaths \'85 long ago. Otherwise these Chem could not be what they obviously were 
\endash  fugitives. They were fugitives from death. Thurlow almost spoke this thought, but he saw that Fraffin had fallen into a reverie approaching trance. The female Chem had finished examining the body on the bed and was staring at her companion.

\par      Presently, Ynvic spoke in shiptongue: \'93It was the only way he could defeat us.\'94
\par      Fraffin nodded, hearing Ynvic as though from a distance. }{\i\insrsid11485343 What a price to pay for victory. What a story it would\rquote ve made for the empatheaters of the Chem universe! For a Chem to kill himself \'85}{\insrsid11485343 
 Fraffin looked at Ruth, beautiful, exotic creature. He felt an abrupt communication with her and with all the others like her. }{\i\insrsid11485343 They have no past except the past I gave them.}{\insrsid11485343 
 The thought was filled with despairing pride. He knew he had lost his world. Kelexel \'85 the Primacy had won. And not one among that Primacy could really know }{\i\insrsid11485343 what}{\insrsid11485343  they had won.
\par      His nostrils were suddenly filled with the same smell of bitter salt he\rquote d inhaled once in the sistral winds of Carthage. He felt his own life identified with Carthage.
\par      The Primacy would exile him to lonely, Chemless foreverness, he knew. It was the only punishment they could inflict on a fellow Chem, no matter what the crime.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 How long will I be able to withstand it before I take Kelexel\rquote s way out?}{\insrsid11485343  he wondered.
\par      Again, he inhaled the dusty, salt smell \endash  Carthage, leafless, contaminated, stripped in the blaze-light of Cato\rquote s gloating, its survivors crouching, terrified.
\par      \'93I told you it\rquote d end this way,\'94 Ynvic said.
\par      Fraffin closed his eyes against the sight of her. In his self-imposed darkness, he could see his own future: the eagle\rquote 
s eyrie come to shame, hidden in a dooryard. He could see it by the dark of the blood that fed the ravenous oracle within him. They\rquote d fit him with every machine and device for comfort and foreverness \endash 
 everything except a fellow Chem or any other living creature.
\par      He imagined an automatic toaster erupting and himself begging life into it. His thoughts were like a skipped rock touching the surface of a lake. His memories of this planet would not let him alone. }{\i\insrsid11485343 He}{\insrsid11485343 
 was the skipped rock, condensing eons: A tree, a face \'85 the glimpse of a face, and his memory shaped out Kallima-Sin\rquote s daughter given in marriage (at a Chem\rquote s direction) to Amenophis in three thousand five hundred puny year-beats ago.

\par      And facts: he remembered that King Cyrus had preferred archeology to the throne. The fool!
\par      And places: a wall in a dirty village along a desert track, a place called Muqayyar. One wall and it called up mighty Ur as he had seen it last \'85
 In his mind, Tiglath-Pileser was not gone, but marched yet before the Chem recorders, through Ishtar Gate, along Procession Street It was a timeless parade with Sennacherib, Shalmanessar, Isem-Dagan, Sinsarra-iskun, all dancing to the Chem tune.
\par      There was a worldpulse in Fraffin\rquote s mind now, a sinepounding timewave: diastole/systole, compelling blacksnake ripples that whipped across generations.
\par      His thoughts dipped briefly into the Babylonian Lingua-franca that had served the merchant world for two thousand years before he\rquote d stirred the pot by giving them Jesus.
\par      Fraffin felt then that his own mind was the sole repository for his creatures, his person the only preservation they had \endash  a place of yearnings, full of voices an
d faces and entire races whose passage had left no mark except distantly outraged whispering \'85
 and tears. And all of it played only in his own memories. That was the only empatheater left to him: the awareness within his own head. These thoughts produced a
 terminal flare of consciousness so that he saw then something of what Kelexel had seen in those final moments.
\par      Again, he looked at Ruth \'85 at Thurlow. Their fear lay so obvious upon their features. Fraffin felt his mind spinning. This, he knew, had to be the making of maturity for himself. And after maturity \'85
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 I\rquote m seeing life from their point of view!}{\insrsid11485343  he thought }{\i\insrsid11485343 I\rquote ve become one of my own creatures!}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      All the history of this planet \'85 }{\i\insrsid11485343 his}{\insrsid11485343  planet lay collapsed and condensed now within him.
\par      From Sheba\rquote 
s time his memory handed him a vision of her camel-station metropolis, a place that withstood Aelius Callus and his legions, but now like Carthage and himself was reduced to petty walls of crumbled dust, kitchen middens, sandspume, silent stones-a
 place waiting for some King Cyrus with shovels to expose its empty skulls.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 Aurum et ferrum,}{\insrsid11485343  he thought. }{\i\insrsid11485343 Gold and iron.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par      And he wondered if there\rquote d be a wink-flare of reason before the burning darkness.
\par      }{\i\insrsid11485343 I\rquote ll have no activity in which to hide my mind,}{\insrsid11485343  he thought, }{\i\insrsid11485343 nothing at last to protect me from boredom.}{\insrsid11485343 
\par \page 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\qc \li0\ri3389\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin3389\lin0\itap0\pararsid11485343 \b\f1\fs26\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11485343 Epilogue
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri3389\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin3389\lin0\itap0\pararsid11485343 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11485343 
\par      BY ORDER OF THE PRIMACY:
\par      No further applications will be taken during this cycle from persons wishing to observe the wild Chem in their nativ
e habitat. Applications for the next cycle will be taken only from observers qualified in genetics, sociology, philosophy and Chem history and their related fields.
\par      Applications for interviews with the native witch doctor, Androcles Thurlow, and his mate, Ruth, are subject to the following restrictions:
\par 
\par      1. \~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Interviewer is prohibited from discussing mortality.
\par      2.\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Interviewer is prohibited from discussing the punishment of Director Fraffin, Shipsurgeon Ynvic or their storyship crewmembers.
\par      3. \~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Interviewer may not question the native female on her relationship with Investigator Kelexel.
\par      4. \~ All interviews must be conducted at the witch doctor\rquote s hut on the native reserve planet under the usual security limitations.
\par 
\par      Be it noted that no requests to adopt wild Chem infants from the native reserve planet or the seeded planets can be honored until completion of studies upon the offspring of Kelexel and the native female. Studies and tests of selected wild Che
m infants are now being conducted and results will be announced when those studies are completed.
\par      For security reasons, all unauthorized attempts to visit the native reserve planet are subject to severe punishment.
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri3389\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin3389\lin0\itap0\pararsid11485343 {\insrsid11485343 (}{\ul\insrsid11485343 SEALED THIS DAY IN THE NAME OF THE PRIMACY}{\insrsid11485343 )
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri3389\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin3389\lin0\itap0\pararsid11485343 {\insrsid11485343 
\par }}