{\rtf1\ansi \deff0{\fonttbl{\f16\froman Times New Roman;}{\f17\froman Symbol;}{\f18\fnil Wingdings;}{\f19\froman Wingdings 2;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red192\green192\blue192;\red0\green0\blue0;}\viewkind1\ftnbj \sectd\footery1080{\header \pard \tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \plain\f16 \par }{\footer \pard \tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \plain\f16 \par }\pard \plain\f16 MR. BRISHER'S TREASURE\par by H. G. Wells\par "You can't be TOO careful WHO you marry," said Mr. Brisher, and\par pulled thoughtfully with a fat-wristed hand at the lank moustache\par that hides his want of chin.\par "That's why--" I ventured.\par "Yes," said Mr. Brisher, with a solemn light in his bleary, blue-grey\par eyes, moving his head expressively and breathing alcohol INTIMATELY\par at me. "There's lots as 'ave 'ad a try at me--many as I could name\par in this town--but none 'ave done it--none."\par I surveyed the flushed countenance, the equatorial expansion,\par the masterly carelessness of his attire, and heaved a sigh to think\par that by reason of the unworthiness of women he must needs be the last\par of his race.\par "I was a smart young chap when I was younger," said Mr. Brisher.\par "I 'ad my work cut out. But I was very careful--very. And I got\par through . . ."\par He leant over the taproom table and thought visibly on the subject\par of my trustworthiness. I was relieved at last by his confidence.\par "I was engaged once," he said at last, with a reminiscent eye on\par the shuv-a'penny board.\par "So near as that?"\par He looked at me. "So near as that. Fact is--" He looked about him,\par brought his face close to mine, lowered his voice, and fenced off an\par unsympathetic world with a grimy hand. "If she ain't dead or married\par to some one else or anything--I'm engaged still. Now." He confirmed\par this statement with nods and facial contortions. "STILL," he said,\par ending the pantomime, and broke into a reckless smile at my surprise.\par "ME!"\par "Run away," he explained further, with coruscating eyebrows.\par "Come 'ome.\par "That ain't all.\par "You'd 'ardly believe it," he said, "but I found a treasure. Found\par a regular treasure."\par I fancied this was irony, and did not, perhaps, greet it with proper\par surprise. "Yes," he said, "I found a treasure. And come 'ome. I tell\par you I could surprise you with things that has happened to me."\par And for some time he was content to repeat that he had found\par a treasure--and left it.\par I made no vulgar clamour for a story, but I became attentive to Mr.\par Brisher's bodily needs, and presently I led him back to the deserted\par lady.\par "She was a nice girl," he said--a little sadly, I thought. "AND\par respectable."\par He raised his eyebrows and tightened his mouth to express extreme\par respectability--beyond the likes of us elderly men.\par "It was a long way from 'ere. Essex, in fact. Near Colchester.\par It was when I was up in London--in the buildin' trade. I was a smart\par young chap then, I can tell you. Slim. 'Ad best clo'es 's good\par as anybody. 'At--SILK 'at, mind you." Mr. Brisher's hand shot above\par his head towards the infinite to indicate it silk hat of the highest.\par "Umbrella--nice umbrella with a 'orn 'andle. Savin's. Very careful\par I was. . . ."\par He was pensive for a little while, thinking, as we must all come\par to think sooner or later, of the vanished brightness of youth.\par But he refrained, as one may do in taprooms, from the obvious moral.\par "I got to know 'er through a chap what was engaged to 'er sister.\par She was stopping in London for a bit with an aunt that 'ad a 'am\par an' beef shop. This aunt was very particular--they was all very\par particular people, all 'er people was--and wouldn't let 'er sister\par go out with this feller except 'er other sister, MY girl that is,\par went with them. So 'e brought me into it, sort of to ease the crowding.\par We used to go walks in Battersea Park of a Sunday afternoon. Me in\par my topper, and 'im in 'is; and the girl's--well--stylish. There wasn't\par many in Battersea Park 'ad the larf of us. She wasn't what you'd\par call pretty, but a nicer girl I never met. _I _ liked 'er from\par the start, and, well--though I say it who shouldn't--she liked me.\par You know 'ow it is, I dessay?"\par I pretended I did.\par "And when this chap married 'er sister--'im and me was great\par friends--what must 'e do but arst me down to Colchester, close by\par where She lived. Naturally I was introjuced to 'er people, and well,\par very soon, her and me was engaged."\par He repeated "engaged."\par "She lived at 'ome with 'er father and mother, quite the lady, in a\par very nice little 'ouse with a garden--and remarkable respectable\par people they was. Rich you might call 'em a'most. They owned their\par own 'ouse--got it out of the Building Society, and cheap because\par the chap who had it before was a burglar and in prison--and they 'ad\par a bit of free'old land, and some cottages and money 'nvested--all\par nice and tight: they was what you'd call snug and warm. I tell you,\par I was On. Furniture too. Why! They 'ad a pianner. Jane--'er name\par was Jane--used to play it Sundays, and very nice she played too.\par There wasn't 'ardly a 'im toon in the book she COULDN'T play . . .\par "Many's the evenin' we've met and sung 'ims there, me and 'er\par and the family.\par "'Er father was quite a leadin' man in chapel. You should ha' seen\par him Sundays, interruptin' the minister and givin' out 'ims. He had\par gold spectacles, I remember, and used to look over 'em at you while\par he sang hearty--he was always great on singing 'earty to the Lord--\par and when HE got out o' toon 'arf the people went after 'im--always.\par 'E was that sort of man. And to walk be'ind 'im in 'is nice black\par clo'es--'is 'at was a brimmer--made one regular proud to be engaged\par to such a father-in-law. And when the summer came I went down there\par and stopped a fortnight.\par "Now, you know there was a sort of Itch," said Mr. Brisher. "We wanted\par to marry, me and Jane did, and get things settled. But 'E said I 'ad\par to get a proper position first. Consequently there was a Itch.\par Consequently, when I went down there, I was anxious to show that\par I was a good useful sort of chap like. Show I could do pretty nearly\par everything like. See?"\par I made a sympathetic noise.\par "And down at the bottom of their garden was a bit of wild part like.\par So I says to 'im, 'Why don't you 'ave a rockery 'ere?' I says.\par 'It 'ud look nice.'\par "'Too much expense,' he says.\par "'Not a penny,' says I. 'I'm a dab at rockeries. Lemme make you one.'\par You see, I'd 'elped my brother make a rockery in the beer garden\par be'ind 'is tap, so I knew 'ow to do it to rights. 'Lemme make you\par one,' I says. 'It's 'olidays, but I'm that sort of chap, I 'ate doing\par nothing,' I says. 'I'll make you one to rights.' And the long and\par the short of it was, he said I might.\par "And that's 'ow I come on the treasure."\par "What treasure?" I asked.\par "Why!" said Mr. Brisher, "the treasure I'm telling you about, what's\par the reason why I never married."\par "What!--a treasure--dug up?"\par "Yes--buried wealth--treasure trove. Come out of the ground. What\par I kept on saying--regular treasure. . . ." He looked at me with\par unusual disrespect.\par "It wasn't more than a foot deep, not the top of it," he said.\par "I'd 'ardly got thirsty like, before I come on the corner."\par "Go on," I said. "I didn't understand."\par "Why! Directly I 'it the box I knew it was treasure. A sort of instinct\par told me. Something seemed to shout inside of me--'Now's your chance--\par lie low.' It's lucky I knew the laws of treasure trove or I'd 'ave been\par shoutin' there and then. I daresay you know--"\par "Crown bags it," I said, "all but one per cent. Go on. It's a shame.\par What did you do?"\par "Uncovered the top of the box. There wasn't anybody in the garden\par or about like. Jane was 'elping 'er mother do the 'ouse. I WAS\par excited--I tell you. I tried the lock and then gave a whack at\par the hinges. Open it came. Silver coins--full! Shining. It made me\par tremble to see 'em. And jest then--I'm blessed if the dustman didn't\par come round the back of the 'ouse. It pretty nearly gave me 'eart\par disease to think what a fool I was to 'ave that money showing. And\par directly after I 'eard the chap next door--'e was 'olidaying, too--\par I 'eard him watering 'is beans. If only 'e'd looked over the fence!"\par "What did you do?"\par "Kicked the lid on again and covered it up like a shot, and went\par on digging about a yard away from it--like mad. And my face, so\par to speak, was laughing on its own account till I had it hid. I tell\par you I was regular scared like at my luck. I jest thought that it\par 'ad to be kep' close and that was all. 'Treasure,' I kep' whisperin'\par to myself, 'Treasure' and ''undreds of pounds, 'undreds, 'undreds\par of pounds.' Whispering to myself like, and digging like blazes. It\par seemed to me the box was regular sticking out and showing, like your\par legs do under the sheets in bed, and I went and put all the earth\par I'd got out of my 'ole for the rockery slap on top of it. I WAS\par in a sweat. And in the midst of it all out toddles 'er father.\par He didn't say anything to me, jest stood behind me and stared,\par but Jane tole me afterwards when he went indoors, 'e says, 'That\par there jackanapes of yours, Jane'--he always called me a jackanapes\par some'ow--'knows 'ow to put 'is back into it after all.' Seemed quite\par impressed by it, 'e did."\par "How long was the box?" I asked, suddenly.\par "'Ow long?" said Mr. Brisher.\par "Yes--in length?"\par "Oh! 'bout so-by-so." Mr. Brisher indicated a moderate-sized trunk.\par "FULL?" said I.\par "Full up of silver coins--'arf-crowns, I believe."\par "Why!" I cried, "that would mean--hundreds of pounds."\par "Thousands," said Mr. Brisher, in a sort of sad calm. "I calc'lated it\par out."\par "But how did they get there?"\par "All I know is what I found. What I thought at the time was this.\par The chap who'd owned the 'ouse before 'er father 'd been a regular\par slap-up burglar. What you'd call a 'igh-class criminal. Used to drive\par 'is trap--like Peace did." Mr. Brisher meditated on the difficulties\par of narration and embarked on a complicated parenthesis. "I don't\par know if I told you it'd been a burglar's 'ouse before it was my girl's\par father's, and I knew 'e'd robbed a mail train once, I did know that.\par It seemed to me--"\par "That's very likely," I said. "But what did you do?"\par "Sweated," said Mr. Brisher. "Regular run orf me. All that morning,"\par said Mr. Brisher, "I was at it, pretending to make that rockery\par and wondering what I should do. I'd 'ave told 'er father p'r'aps,\par only I was doubtful of 'is honesty--I was afraid he might rob me of\par it like, and give it up to the authorities--and besides, considering\par I was marrying into the family, I thought it would be nicer like\par if it came through me. Put me on a better footing, so to speak.\par Well, I 'ad three days before me left of my 'olidays, so there\par wasn't no hurry, so I covered it up and went on digging, and tried\par to puzzle out 'ow I was to make sure of it. Only I couldn't.\par "I thought," said Mr. Brisher, "AND I thought. Once I got regular\par doubtful whether I'd seen it or not, and went down to it and 'ad it\par uncovered again, just as her ma came out to 'ang up a bit of washin'\par she'd done. Jumps again! Afterwards I was just thinking I'd 'ave\par another go at it, when Jane comes to tell me dinner was ready.\par 'You'll want it,' she said, 'seeing all the 'ole you've dug.'\par "I was in a regular daze all dinner, wondering whether that chap\par next door wasn't over the fence and filling 'is pockets. But in\par the afternoon I got easier in my mind--it seemed to me it must 'ave\par been there so long it was pretty sure to stop a bit longer--and\par I tried to get up a bit of a discussion to dror out the old man\par and see what 'E thought of treasure trove."\par Mr. Brisher paused, and affected amusement at the memory.\par "The old man was a scorcher," he said; "a regular scorcher."\par "What!" said I; "did he--?"\par "It was like this," explained Mr. Brisher, laying a friendly hand\par on my arm and breathing into my face to calm me. "Just to dror\par 'im out, I told a story of a chap I said I knew--pretendin', you\par know--who'd found a sovring in a novercoat 'e'd borrowed. I said\par 'e stuck to it, but I said I wasn't sure whether that was right\par or not. And then the old man began. Lor'! 'e DID let me 'ave it!"\par Mr. Brisher affected an insincere amusement. "'E was, well--what you\par might call a rare 'and at Snacks. Said that was the sort of friend\par 'e'd naturally expect me to 'ave. Said 'e'd naturally expect that\par from the friend of a out-of-work loafer who took up with daughters\par who didn't belong to 'im. There! I couldn't tell you 'ARF 'e said.\par 'E went on most outrageous. I stood up to 'im about it, just to dror\par 'im out. 'Wouldn't you stick to a 'arf-sov', not if you found it in\par the street?' I says. 'Certainly not,' 'e says; 'certainly I wouldn't.'\par 'What! not if you found it as a sort of treasure?' 'Young man,'\par 'e says, 'there's 'i'er 'thority than mine--Render unto Caesar'--\par what is it? Yes. Well, he fetched up that. A rare 'and at 'itting\par you over the 'ed with the Bible, was the old man. And so he went on.\par 'E got to such Snacks about me at last I couldn't stand it. I'd\par promised Jane not to answer 'im back, but it got a bit TOO thick.\par I--I give it 'im . . ."\par Mr. Brisher, by means of enigmatical facework, tried to make me\par think he had had the best of that argument, but I knew better.\par "I went out in a 'uff at last. But not before I was pretty sure I\par 'ad to lift that treasure by myself. The only thing that kep' me up\par was thinking 'ow I'd take it out of 'im when I 'ad the cash."\par There was a lengthy pause.\par "Now, you'd 'ardly believe it, but all them three days I never\par 'ad a chance at the blessed treasure, never got out not even\par a 'arf-crown. There was always a Somethink--always.\par "'Stonishing thing it isn't thought of more," said Mr. Brisher.\par "Finding treasure's no great shakes. It's gettin' it. I don't\par suppose I slep' a wink any of those nights, thinking where I was\par to take it, what I was to do with it, 'ow I was to explain it.\par It made me regular ill. And days I was that dull, it made Jane\par regular 'uffy. 'You ain't the same chap you was in London,' she\par says, several times. I tried to lay it on 'er father and 'is Snacks,\par but bless you, she knew better. What must she 'ave but that I'd\par got another girl on my mind! Said I wasn't True. Well, we had\par a bit of a row. But I was that set on the Treasure, I didn't seem\par to mind a bit Anything she said.\par "Well, at last I got a sort of plan. I was always a bit good at\par planning, though carrying out isn't so much in my line. I thought it\par all out and settled on a plan. First, I was going to take all my\par pockets full of these 'ere 'arf-crowns--see?--and afterwards as I\par shall tell.\par "Well, I got to that state I couldn't think of getting at the Treasure\par again in the daytime, so I waited until the night before I had to go,\par and then, when everything was still, up I gets and slips down\par to the back door, meaning to get my pockets full. What must I do\par in the scullery but fall over a pail! Up gets 'er father with a gun--'e\par was a light sleeper was 'er father, and very suspicious and there\par was me: 'ad to explain I'd come down to the pump for a drink because\par my water-bottle was bad. 'E didn't let me off a Snack or two over\par that bit, you lay a bob."\par "And you mean to say--" I began.\par "Wait a bit," said Mr. Brisher. "I say, I'd made my plan. That put\par the kybosh on one bit, but it didn't 'urt the general scheme not a bit.\par I went and I finished that rockery next day, as though there wasn't\par a Snack in the world; cemented over the stones, I did, dabbed\par it green and everythink. I put a dab of green just to show where\par the box was. They all came and looked at it, and sai 'ow nice\par it was--even 'e was a bit softer like to see it, and all he said was,\par "It's a pity you can't always work like that, then you might get\par something definite to do," he says.\par "'Yes,' I says--I couldn't 'elp it--'I put a lot in that rockery,'\par I says, like that. See? 'I put a lot in that rockery'--meaning--"\par "I see," said I--for Mr. Brisher is apt to overelaborate his jokes.\par "_'E_ didn't," said Mr. Brisher. "Not then, anyhow.\par "Ar'ever--after all that was over, off I set for London. . . .\par Orf I set for London."\par Pause.\par "On'y I wasn't going to no London," said Mr. Brisher, with sudden\par animation, and thrusting his face into mine. "No fear! What do YOU\par think?\par "I didn't go no further than Colchester--not a yard.\par "I'd left the spade just where I could find it. I'd got everything\par planned and right. I 'ired a little trap in Colchester, and pretended\par I wanted to go to Ipswich and stop the night, and come back next\par day, and the chap I 'ired it from made me leave two sovrings on it\par right away, and off I set.\par "I didn't go to no Ipswich neither.\par "Midnight the 'orse and trap was 'itched by the little road that ran\par by the cottage where 'e lived--not sixty yards off, it wasn't--and\par I was at it like a good 'un. It was jest the night for such\par games--overcast--but a trifle too 'ot, and all round the sky there\par was summer lightning and presently a thunderstorm. Down it came.\par First big drops in a sort of fizzle, then 'ail. I kep'on. I whacked\par at it--I didn't dream the old man would 'ear. I didn't even trouble\par to go quiet with the spade, and the thunder and lightning and 'ail\par seemed to excite me like. I shouldn't wonder if I was singing. I got\par so 'ard at it I clean forgot the thunder and the 'orse and trap. I\par precious soon got the box showing, and started to lift it . . . ."\par "Heavy?" I said.\par "I couldn't no more lift it than fly. I WAS sick. I'd never thought\par of that I got regular wild--I tell you, I cursed. I got sort of\par outrageous. I didn't think of dividing it like for the minute,\par and even then I couldn't 'ave took money about loose in a trap.\par I hoisted one end sort of wild like, and over the whole show went\par with a tremenjous noise. Perfeck smash of silver. And then right\par on the heels of that, Flash! Lightning like the day! and there was\par the back door open and the old man coming down the garden with\par 'is blooming old gun. He wasn't not a 'undred yards away!\par "I tell you I was that upset--I didn't think what I was doing.\par I never stopped-not even to fill my pockets. I went over the fence\par like a shot, and ran like one o'clock for the trap, cussing and\par swearing as I went. I WAS in a state. . . .\par "And will you believe me, when I got to the place where I'd left\par the 'orse and trap, they'd gone. Orf! When I saw that I 'adn't\par a cuss left for it. I jest danced on the grass, and when I'd danced\par enough I started off to London. . . . I was done."\par Mr. Brisher was pensive for an interval. "I was done," he repeated,\par very bitterly.\par "Well?" I said.\par "That's all," said Mr. Brisher.\par "You didn't go back?"\par "No fear. I'd 'ad enough of THAT blooming treasure, any'ow for a bit.\par Besides, I didn't know what was done to chaps who tried to collar\par a treasure trove. I started off for London there and then. . . ."\par "And you never went back?"\par "Never."\par "But about Jane? Did you write?"\par "Three times, fishing like. And no answer. We'd parted in a bit\par of a 'uff on account of 'er being jealous. So that I couldn't make\par out for certain what it meant.\par "I didn't know what to do. I didn't even know whether the old man\par knew it was me. I sort of kep' an eye open on papers to see when he'd\par give up that treasure to the Crown, as I hadn't a doubt 'e would,\par considering 'ow respectable he'd always been."\par "And did he?"\par Mr. Brisher pursed his mouth and moved his head slowly from side\par to side. "Not 'IM," he said.\par "Jane was a nice girl," he said, "a thorough nice girl mind you,\par if jealous, and there's no knowing I mightn't 'ave gone back to 'er\par after a bit. I thought if he didn't give up the treasure I might 'ave\par a sort of 'old on 'im. . . . Well, one day I looks as usual under\par Colchester--and there I saw 'is name. What for, d'yer think?"\par I could not guess.\par Mr. Brisher's voice sank to a whisper, and once more he spoke behind\par his hand. His manner was suddenly suffused with a positive joy.\par "Issuing counterfeit coins," he said. "Counterfeit coins!"\par "You don't mean to say--?"\par "Yes-It. Bad. Quite a long case they made of it. But they got 'im,\par though he dodged tremenjous. Traced 'is 'aving passed, oh!--nearly\par a dozen bad 'arf-crowns."\par "And you didn't--?"\par "No fear. And it didn't do 'IM much good to say it was treasure trove."\par \par }
