{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1049\deflangfe1049{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset204\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f393\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}
{\f391\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f394\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f395\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f396\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\f397\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f398\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f399\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 \styrsid5124933 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive 
\ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\*\cs15 \additive \sbasedon10 \styrsid5124933 page number;}{
\s16\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4677\tqr\tx9355\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 \styrsid5124933 footer;}}{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax156\lsdlockeddef0}{\*\revtbl {Unknown;}}
{\*\rsidtbl \rsid31592\rsid76438\rsid347638\rsid416199\rsid595675\rsid724026\rsid728414\rsid1003066\rsid1312678\rsid1458212\rsid1591229\rsid1604813\rsid1653540\rsid1718023\rsid2049500\rsid2185105\rsid2230203\rsid2363887\rsid2387724\rsid2454177\rsid2564310
\rsid2688954\rsid2765369\rsid2910358\rsid2911734\rsid3171455\rsid3474135\rsid3482629\rsid3484154\rsid3490698\rsid3546796\rsid3618148\rsid3736855\rsid3813316\rsid3815891\rsid3877014\rsid3889809\rsid3937402\rsid4005450\rsid4017710\rsid4210539\rsid4609449
\rsid4785523\rsid4931871\rsid4981641\rsid5010494\rsid5124933\rsid5334242\rsid5461934\rsid5586372\rsid5658990\rsid5773811\rsid5921319\rsid5989677\rsid6061036\rsid6165788\rsid6256100\rsid6312851\rsid6322083\rsid6442311\rsid6557818\rsid6779261\rsid7041218
\rsid7084288\rsid7102373\rsid7157428\rsid7342695\rsid7350823\rsid7354753\rsid7408178\rsid7428525\rsid7471400\rsid7501097\rsid7736161\rsid7865496\rsid7932131\rsid7943397\rsid8418859\rsid8540903\rsid8595774\rsid8653708\rsid8925478\rsid8933492\rsid9048954
\rsid9057940\rsid9118575\rsid9377708\rsid9445557\rsid9460232\rsid9534267\rsid9641143\rsid9713265\rsid9831673\rsid9833494\rsid9921899\rsid10576441\rsid10627611\rsid10628637\rsid10945427\rsid10958683\rsid11013404\rsid11017362\rsid11102007\rsid11108060
\rsid11299304\rsid11363251\rsid11737041\rsid11757294\rsid11804857\rsid11950289\rsid12074409\rsid12077307\rsid12279346\rsid12279962\rsid12321806\rsid12347082\rsid12396221\rsid12474884\rsid12746212\rsid13065766\rsid13136808\rsid13205060\rsid13260542
\rsid13307834\rsid13395206\rsid13399133\rsid13707840\rsid13717973\rsid13723658\rsid14090374\rsid14688396\rsid14768580\rsid15034092\rsid15206462\rsid15556481\rsid15562558\rsid15680694\rsid15803580\rsid15947007\rsid15955786\rsid16011465\rsid16125773
\rsid16207340\rsid16271667\rsid16326584\rsid16331182\rsid16333653\rsid16466661\rsid16651414}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 11.0.6568;}{\info{\title Frank Herbert}{\author Natasha}{\operator Nata}{\creatim\yr2007\mo5\dy25\min25}
{\revtim\yr2007\mo5\dy25\min25}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages77}{\nofwords54555}{\nofchars310966}{\*\company Home}{\nofcharsws364792}{\vern24579}}\margl851\margr851\margt680\margb680 
\deftab708\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin851\dgvorigin680\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale75\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct
\asianbrkrule\rsidroot5124933\newtblstyruls\nogrowautofit \fet0{\*\ftnsep \pard\plain \qj \fi284\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid8418859 \chftnsep 

\par }}{\*\ftnsepc \pard\plain \qj \fi284\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid8418859 \chftnsepc 
\par }}{\*\aftnsep \pard\plain \qj \fi284\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid8418859 \chftnsep 
\par }}{\*\aftnsepc \pard\plain \qj \fi284\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid8418859 \chftnsepc 
\par }}\sectd \linex0\headery709\footery709\colsx708\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\footer \pard\plain \s16\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4677\tqr\tx9355\pvpara\phmrg\posxr\posy0\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\field{\*\fldinst {\cs15\insrsid5124933 PAGE  }}{\fldrslt {\cs15\lang1024\langfe1024\noproof\insrsid2230203 1}}}{\cs15\insrsid5124933 
\par }\pard \s16\qj \fi284\li0\ri360\widctlpar\tqc\tx4677\tqr\tx9355\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin360\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid5124933 
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid16326584 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs40\insrsid5124933\charrsid16326584 Frank Herbert
\par 
\par }{\b\fs40\insrsid16326584\charrsid16326584 Book 1 part 3 - }{\b\fs40\insrsid5124933\charrsid16326584 T}{\b\fs40\insrsid16326584\charrsid16326584 he}{\b\fs40\insrsid5124933\charrsid16326584  P}{\b\fs40\insrsid16326584\charrsid16326584 rophet}{
\b\fs40\insrsid5124933\charrsid16326584 
\par }{\fs40\insrsid16326584\charrsid16326584 (Dune \endash  1.3)}{\fs28\insrsid16326584\charrsid16326584 
\par }\pard \qj \fi180\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5124933 {\fs28\insrsid5124933\charrsid16326584 
\par 
\par No woman, no man, no child ever was deeply intimate with my father. The closest anyone ever came to casual camaraderie with the Padishah Emperor was the relationship offered by Count Hasimir Fenring
, a companion from childhood. The measure of Count Fenring's friendship may be seen first in a positive thing: he allayed the Landsraad's suspicions after the Arrakis Affair. It cost more than a billion solaris in spice bribes, so my mother said, and ther
e
 were other gifts as well: slave women, royal honors, and tokens of rank. The second major evidence of the Count's friendship was negative. He refused to kill a man even though it was within his capabilities and my father commanded it. I will relate this 
presently.
\par -"Count Fenring: A Profile\'94 by the Princess Irulan
\par 
\par The Baron Vladimir Harkonnen raged down the corridor from his private apartments, flitting through patches of late afternoon sunlight that poured down from high windows. He bobbed and twisted in his suspensors with violent movements.
\par Past the private kitchen he stormed \endash  past the library, past the small reception room and into the servants\rquote  antechamber where the evening relaxation already had set in.
\par The guard captain, Iakin Nefud, squatted on a divan across the chamber, the stupor of semuta dullness in his flat face, the eerie wailing of semuta music around him. His own court sat near to do his bidding.
\par \'93Nefud!\'94 the Baron roared. 
\par Men scrambled.
\par Nefud stood, his face composed by the narcotic but with an overlay of paleness that told of his fear. The semuta music had stopped.
\par \'93My Lord Baron,\'94 Nefud said. Only the drug kept the trembling out of his voice.
\par The Baron scanned the faces around him, seeing the looks of frantic quiet in them. He returned his attention to Nefud, and spoke in a silken tone:
\par \'93How long have you been my guard captain, Nefud?\'94 
\par Nefud swallowed. \'93Since Arrakis, my Lord. Almost two years.\'94
\par \'93And have you always anticipated dangers to my person?\'94 
\par \'93Such has been my only desire, my Lord.\'94 
\par \'93Then where is Feyd-Rautha?\'94 the Baron roared. 
\par Nefud recoiled. \'93M'Lord?\'94
\par \'93You do not consider Feyd-Rautha a danger to my person?\'94 Again, the voice was silken.
\par Nefud wet his lips with his tongue. Some of the semuta dullness left his eyes. \'93Feyd-Rautha's in the slave quarters, my Lord.\'94 
\par \'93With the women again, eh?\'94 The Baron trembled with the effort of suppressing anger. 
\par \'93Sire, it could be he's \endash \'94 
\par \'93Silence!\'94
\par The Baron advanced another step into the antechamber, noting how the men moved back, clearing a subtle space around Nefud, dissociating themselves from the object of wrath.
\par \'93Did I not command you to know precisely where the na-Baron was at all times?\'94 the Baron asked. He moved a step closer. \'93Did I not say to you that you were to know precisely what the na-Baron was saying at all times \endash  and to whom?\'94
 Another step. \'93Did I not say to you that you were to tell me whenever he went into the quarters of the slave women?\'94 
\par Nefud swallowed. Perspiration stood out on his forehead.
\par The Baron held his voice flat, almost devoid of emphasis: \'93Did I not say these things to you?\'94 
\par Nefud nodded.
\par \'93And did I not say to that you were to check all slave boys sent to me and that you were to do this yourself\'85 personally?\'94 
\par Again, Nefud nodded.
\par \'93Did you, perchance, not see the blemish on the thigh of the one sent me this evening?\'94 the Baron asked. \'93Is it possible you \endash \'94 
\par \'93Uncle.\'94
\par The Baron whirled, stared at Feyd-Rautha standing in the doorway. The presence of his nephew here, now \endash  the look of hurry that the young man could not quite conceal \endash 
 all revealed much. Feyd-Rautha had his own spy system focused on the Baron.
\par \'93There is a body in my chambers that I wish removed,\'94 the Baron said, and he kept his hand at the projectile weapon beneath his robes, thankful that his shield was the best.
\par Feyd-Rautha glanced at two guardsmen against the right wall, nodded. The two detached themselves, scurried out the door and down the hall toward the Baron's apartments.
\par Those two, eh? the Baron thought. Ah, this young monster has much to learn yet about conspiracy!
\par \'93I presume you left matters peaceful in the slave quarters, Feyd,\'94 the Baron said.
\par \'93I've been playing cheops with the slavemaster,\'94 Feyd-Rautha said, and he thought: What has gone wrong? The boy we sent to my uncle has obviousl
y been killed. But he was perfect for the job. Even Hawat couldn't have made a better choice. The boy was perfect!
\par \'93Playing pyramid chess,\'94 the Baron said. \'93How nice. Did you win?\'94
\par \'93I\'85 ah, yes, Uncle.\'94 And Feyd-Rautha strove to contain his disquiet.
\par The Baron snapped his fingers. \'93Nefud, you wish to be restored to my good graces?\'94 
\par \'93Sire, what have I done?\'94 Nefud quavered.
\par \'93That's unimportant now,\'94 the Baron said. \'93Feyd has beaten the slavemaster at cheops. Did you hear that?\'94 
\par \'93Yes\'85 Sire.\'94
\par \'93I wish you to take three men and go to the slavemaster,\'94 the Baron said. \'93Garrote the slavemaster. Bring his body to me when you've finished that I may see it was done properly. We cannot have such inept chess players in our employ.\'94 
\par Feyd-Rautha went pale, took a step forward. \'93But, Uncle, I \endash \'94 
\par \'93Later, Feyd,\'94 the Baron said, and waved a hand. \'93Later.\'94 
\par The two guards who had gone to the Baron's quarters for the slave boy's body staggered past the antechamber door with their load sagging between them, arms trailing. The Baron watched until they were out of sight.
\par Nefud stepped up beside the Baron. \'93You wish me to kill the slavemaster, now, my Lord?\'94
\par \'93Now,\'94 the Baron said. \'93And when you've finished, add those two who just passed to your list. I don't like the way they carried that body. One should do such things neatly. I'll wish to see their carcasses, too.\'94 
\par Nefud said, \'93My Lord, is it anything that I've \endash \'94 
\par \'93Do as your master has ordered,\'94 Feyd-Rautha said. And he thought: All I can hope for now is to save my own skin.
\par G
ood! the Baron thought. He yet knows how to cut his losses. And the Baron smiled inwardly at himself, thinking: The lad knows, too, what will please me and be most apt to stay my wrath from falling on him. He knows I must preserve him. Who else do I have 
who could take the reins I must leave someday? I have no other as capable. But he must learn! And I must preserve myself while he's learning.
\par Nefud signaled men to assist him, led them out the door.
\par \'93Would you accompany me to my chambers, Feyd?\'94 the Baron asked.
\par \'93I am yours to command,\'94 Feyd-Rautha said. He bowed, thinking: I'm caught.
\par \'93After you,\'94 the Baron said, and he gestured to the door.
\par Feyd-Rautha indicated his fear by only the barest hesitation. Have I failed utterly? he asked himself. Will he slip a poisoned blade into my back\'85 slowly, through the shield? Does he have an alternative successor?
\par Let him experience this moment of terror, the Baron thought as he walked along behind his nephew. He will succeed me, but at a time of my choosing. I'll not have him throwing away what I've built!
\par Feyd-Rautha tried not to walk too swiftly. He felt the skin crawling on his back as though his body itself wondered when the blow could come. His muscles alternately tensed and relaxed.
\par \'93Have you heard the latest word from Arrakis?\'94 the Baron asked.
\par \'93No, Uncle.\'94
\par Feyd-Rautha forced himself not to look back. He turned down the hall out of the servants\rquote  wing.
\par \'93They've a new prophet or religious leader of some kind among the Fremen,\'94 the Baron said. \'93They call him Muad'Dib. Very funny, really. It means \lquote the Mouse.\rquote 
 I've told Rabban to let them have their religion. It'll keep them occupied.\'94
\par \'93That's very interesting, Uncle,\'94 Feyd-Rautha said. He turned into the private corridor to his uncle's quarters, wondering: Why does he talk about religion? Is it some subtle hint to me? 
\par \'93Yes, isn't it?\'94 the Baron said.
\par They came into the Baron's apartments through the reception salon to the bedchamber. Subtle signs of a struggle greeted them here \endash  a suspensor lamp displaced, a bedcushion on the floor, a soother-reel spilled open across a bedstand.
\par \'93It was a clever plan,\'94 the Baron said. He kept his body shield tuned to maximum, stopped, facing his nephew. \'93But not clever enough. Tell me, Feyd, why didn't you strike me down yourself? You've had opportunity enough.\'94
\par Feyd-Rautha found a suspensor chair, accomplished a mental shrug as he sat down in it without being asked. 
\par I must be bold now, he thought.
\par \'93You taught me that my own hands must remain clean,\'94 he said.
\par \'93Ah, yes,\'94 the Baron said. \'93When you face the Emperor, you must be able to say truthfully that you did not do the deed. The witch at the Emperor's elbow will hear your words and know their truth or falsehood. Yes. I warned you about that.\'94

\par \'93Why haven't you ever bought a Bene Gesserit, Uncle?\'94 Feyd-Rautha asked. \'93With a Truthsayer at your side  \endash \'94 
\par \'93You know my tastes!\'94 the Baron snapped.
\par Feyd-Rautha studied his uncle, said: \'93Still, one would be valuable for \endash \'94
\par \'93I trust them not!\'94 the Baron snarled. \'93And stop trying to change the subject!\'94 
\par Feyd-Rautha spoke mildly; \'93As you wish, Uncle.\'94 
\par \'93I remember a time in the arena several years ago,\'94 the Baron said. \'93It seemed there that day a slave had been set to kill you. Is that truly how it was?\'94 
\par \'93It's been so long ago, Uncle. After all, I \endash \'94
\par \'93No evasions, please,\'94 the Baron said, and the tightness of his voice exposed the rein on his anger.
\par Feyd-Rautha looked at his uncle, thinking: He knows, else he wouldn't ask.
\par \'93It was a sham, Uncle. I arranged it to discredit your slavemaster.\'94
\par \'93Very clever,\'94 the Baron said. \'93Brave, too. That slave-gladiator almost took you, didn't he?\'94 
\par \'93Yes.\'94
\par \'93If you had finesse and subtlety to match such courage, you'd be truly formidable.\'94 The Baron shook his head from side to side. And as he had done many times sin
ce that terrible day on Arrakis, he found himself regretting the loss of Piter, the Mentat. There'd been a man of delicate, devilish subtlety. It hadn't saved him, though. Again, the Baron shook his head. Fate was sometimes inscrutable.
\par Feyd-Rautha glanced around the bedchamber, studying the signs of the struggle, wondering how his uncle had overcome the slave they'd prepared so carefully.
\par \'93How did I best him?\'94 the Baron asked. \'93Ah-h-h, now, Feyd \endash  let me keep some weapons to preserve me in my old age. It's better we use this time to strike a bargain.\'94
\par Feyd-Rautha stared at him. A bargain! He means to keep me as his heir for certain, then. Else why bargain. One bargains with equals or near equals!
\par \'93What bargain, Uncle?\'94 And Feyd-Rautha felt proud that his voice remained calm and reasonable, betraying none of the elation that filled him.
\par The Baron, too, noted the control. He nodded. \'93You're good material, Feyd. I don't waste good material. You persist, however, in refusing to learn my true value to you. You ar
e obstinate. You do not see why I should be preserved as someone of the utmost value to you. This\'85 \'94 He gestured at the evidence of the struggle in the bedchamber. \'93This was foolishness. I do not reward foolishness.\'94 
\par Get to the point, you old fool! Feyd-Rautha thought.
\par \'93You think of me as an old fool,\'94 the Baron said. \'93I must dissuade you of that.\'94 
\par \'93You speak of a bargain.\'94
\par \'93Ah, the impatience of youth,\'94 the Baron said. \'93Well, this is the substance of it, then: You will cease these foolish attempts on my 
life. And I, when you are ready for it, will step aside in your favor. I will retire to an advisory position, leaving you in the seat of power.\'94 
\par \'93Retire, Uncle?\'94
\par \'93You still think me the fool,\'94 the Baron said, \'93and this but confirms it, eh? You think I'm b
egging you! Step cautiously, Feyd. This old fool saw through the shielded needle you'd planted in that slave boy's thigh. Right where I'd put my hand on it, eh? The smallest pressure and \endash  snick! A poison needle in the old fool's palm! Ah-h-h, Feyd
\'85 \'94
\par The 
Baron shook his head, thinking: It would've worked, too, if Hawat hadn't warned me. Well, let the lad believe I saw the plot on my own. In a way, I did. I was the one who saved Hawat from the wreckage of Arrakis. And this lad needs greater respect for my 
prowess.
\par Feyd-Rautha remained silent, struggling, with himself. Is he being truthful? Does he really mean to retire? Why not? I'm sure to succeed him one day if I move carefully. He can't live forever. Perhaps it was foolish to try hurrying the process.
\par \'93You speak of a bargain,\'94 Feyd-Rautha said. \'93What pledge do we give to bind it?\'94
\par \'93How can we trust each other, eh?\'94 the Baron asked. \'93Well, Feyd, as for you: I'm setting Thufir Hawat to watch over you. I trust Hawat's Mentat capabilities in this. Do you under
stand me? And as for me, you'll have to take me on faith. But I can't live forever, can I, Feyd? And perhaps you should begin to suspect now that there're things I know which you should know.\'94
\par \'93I give you my pledge and what do you give me?\'94 Feyd-Rautha asked.
\par \'93I let you go on living,\'94 the Baron said.
\par Again, Feyd-Rautha studied his uncle. He sets Hawat over me! What would he say if I told him Hawat planned the trick with the gladiator that cost him his slavemaster? He'd likely say I was lying in the attempt 
to discredit Hawat. No, the good Thufir is a Mentat and has anticipated this moment.
\par \'93Well, what do you say?\'94 the Baron asked. 
\par \'93What can I say? I accept, of course.\'94
\par And Feyd-Rautha thought: Hawat! He plays both ends against the middle\'85 is that it? Has he moved to my uncle's camp because I didn't counsel with him over the slave boy attempt?
\par \'93You haven't said anything about my setting Hawat to watch you,\'94 the Baron said.
\par Feyd-Rautha betrayed anger by a flaring of nostrils. The name of Hawat had been a danger signal in the Harkonnen family for so many years\'85 and now it had a new meaning: still dangerous. 
\par \'93Hawat's a dangerous toy,\'94 Feyd-Rautha said.
\par \'93Toy! Don't be stupid. I know what I have in Hawat and how to control it. Hawat has deep emotions, Feyd. The man without emotions is the one to fear. But deep emotions\'85 ah, now, those can be bent to your needs.\'94 
\par \'93Uncle, I don't understand you.\'94 
\par \'93Yes, that's plain enough.\'94
\par Only a flicker of eyelids betrayed the passage of resentment through Feyd-Rautha.
\par \'93And you do not understand Hawat,\'94 the Baron said. 
\par Nor do you! Feyd-Rautha thought.
\par \'93Who does Hawat blame for his present circumstances?\'94 the Baron asked. \'93Me? Certainly. But he was an Atreides tool and bested me for years until the Imperium took a hand. That's how
 he sees it. His hate for me is a casual thing now. He believes he can best me any time. Believing this, he is bested. For I direct his attention where I want it \endash  against the Imperium.\'94
\par Tensions of a new understanding drew tight lines across Feyd-Rautha's forehead, thinned his mouth. \'93Against the Emperor?\'94 
\par Let my dear nephew try the taste of that, the Baron thought. Let him say to himself: \'93The Emperor Feyd-Rautha Harkonnen!\'94 Let him ask himself how much that's worth. Surely it must be worth the life of o
ne old uncle who could make that dream come to pass!
\par Slowly, Feyd-Rautha wet his lips with his tongue. Could it be true what the old fool was saying? There was more here than there seemed to be.
\par \'93And what has Hawat to do with this?\'94 Feyd-Rautha asked. 
\par \'93He thinks he uses us to wreak his revenge upon the Emperor.\'94 
\par \'93And when that's accomplished?\'94 
\par \'93He does not think beyond his revenge. Hawat's a man who must serve others, and doesn't even know this about himself.\'94 
\par \'93I've learned much from Hawat,\'94 Feyd-Rautha agreed, and felt the truth of the words as he spoke them. \'93But the more I learn, the more I feel we should dispose of him\'85 and soon.\'94 
\par \'93You don't like the idea of his watching you?\'94 
\par \'93Hawat watches everybody.\'94
\par \'93And he may put you on a throne. Hawat is sub
tle. He is dangerous, devious. But I'll not yet withhold the antidote from him. A sword is dangerous, too, Feyd. We have the scabbard for this one, though. The poison's in him. When we withdraw the antidote, death will sheathe him.\'94
\par \'93In a way, it's like the arena,\'94 Feyd-Rautha said. \'93Feints within feints within feints. You watch to see which way the gladiator leans, which way he looks, how he holds his knife.\'94
\par He nodded to himself, seeing that these words pleased his uncle, but thinking: Yes! Like the arena! And the cutting edge is the mind!
\par \'93Now you see how you need me,\'94 the Baron said. \'93I'm yet of use, Feyd.\'94
\par A sword to be wielded until he's too blunt for use, Feyd-Rautha thought.
\par \'93Yes, Uncle, \'93he said.
\par \'93And now,\'94 the Baron said, \'93we will go down to the slave quarters, we two. And I will watch while you, with your own hands, kill all the women in the pleasure wing.\'94
\par \'93Uncle!\'94
\par \'93There will be other women, Feyd. But I have said that you do not make a mistake casually with me.\'94 
\par Feyd-Rautha's face darkened. \'93Uncle, you \endash \'94 
\par \'93You will accept your punishment and learn something from it,\'94 the Baron said.
\par Feyd-Rautha met the gloating stare in his uncle's eyes. And I must remember this night, he thought. And remembering it, I must remember other nights.
\par \'93You will not refuse,\'94 the Baron said.
\par What could you do if I refused, old man? Feyd-Rautha asked himself. But he knew there might be some other punishment, perhaps a more subtle one, a more brutal lever to bend him. 
\par \'93I know you, Feyd,\'94 the Baron said. \'93You will not refuse.\'94 
\par All right, Feyd-Rautha thought. I need you now. I see that. The bargain's made. But I'll not always need you. And\'85 someday\'85 
\par 
\par 
\par Deep in the human unconscious is a pervasive need for a logical universe that makes sense. But the real universe is always one step beyond logic.
\par -from \'93The Sayings of Muad'Dib\'94 by the Princess Irulan
\par 
\par I've sat across from many rulers of Great Houses, but never seen a more gross and dangerous pig than this one, Thufir Hawat told himself.
\par \'93You may speak plainly with me, Hawat,\'94 the Baron rumbled. He leaned back in his suspensor chair, the eyes in their folds of fat boring into Hawat.
\par The old Mentat looked down at the table between him and the Baron Vladimir Harkonnen, noting the opulence of its grain. Even this was a factor to 
consider in assessing the Baron, as were the red walls of this private conference room and the faint sweet herb scent that hung on the air, masking a deeper musk.
\par \'93You didn't have me send that warning to Rabban as an idle whim,\'94 the Baron said.
\par Hawat's leathery old face remained impassive, betraying none of the loathing he felt. \'93I suspect many things, my Lord,\'94 he said.
\par \'93Yes. Well, I wish to know how Arrakis figures in your suspicions about Salusa Secundus. It is not enough that you say to me the Emperor i
s in a ferment about some association between Arrakis and his mysterious prison planet. Now, I rushed the warning out to Rabban only because the courier had to leave on that Heighliner. You said there could be no delay. Well and good. But now I will have 
an explanation.\'94
\par He babbles too much, Hawat thought. He's not like Leto who could tell me a thing with the lift of an eyebrow or the wave of a hand. Nor like the Old Duke who could express an entire sentence in the way he accented a single word. This is a c
lod! Destroying him will be a service to mankind.
\par \'93You will not leave here until I've had a full and complete explanation,\'94 the Baron said.
\par \'93You speak too casually of Salusa Secundus,\'94 Hawat said.
\par \'93It's a penal colony,\'94 the Baron said. \'93The worst riff-raff in the galaxy are sent to Salusa Secundus. What else do we need to know?\'94
\par \'93That conditions on the prison planet are more oppressive than anywhere else,\'94 Hawat said. \'93You hear that the mortality rate among new prisoners is higher than sixty per cent. You h
ear that the Emperor practices every form of oppression there. You hear all this and do not ask questions?\'94
\par \'93The Emperor doesn't permit the Great Houses to inspect his prison,\'94 the Baron growled. \'93But he hasn't seen into my dungeons, either.\'94
\par \'93And curiosity about Salusa Secundus is\'85 ah\'85 \'94 Hawat put a bony finger to his lips. \'93\'85 discouraged.\'94 
\par \'93So he's not proud of some of the things he must do there!\'94 
\par Hawat allowed the faintest of smiles to touch his dark lips. His eyes glinted in the glowtube light as he stared at the Baron. \'93And you've never wondered where the Emperor gets his Sardaukar?\'94 
\par The Baron pursed his fat lips. This gave his features the look of a pouting baby, and his voice carried a tone of petulance as he said: \'93Why\'85 he recruits\'85 that is to say, there are the levies and he enlists from \endash \'94
\par \'93Faaa!\'94 Hawat snapped. \'93The stories you hear about the exploits of the Sardaukar, they're not rumors, are they? Those are first-hand accounts from the limited number of survivors who've fought against the Sardaukar, eh?\'94
\par \'93The Sardaukar are excellent fighting men, no doubt of it,\'94 the Baron said. \'93But I think my own legions \endash \'94
\par \'93A pack of holiday excursionists by comparison!\'94 Hawat snarled. \'93You think I don't know why the Emperor turned against House Atreides?\'94
\par \'93This is not a realm open to your speculation,\'94 the Baron warned.
\par Is it possible that even he doesn't know what motivated the Emperor in this? Hawat asked himself.
\par \'93Any area is open to my speculation if it does what you've hired me to do,\'94 Hawat said. \'93I am a Mentat. You do not withhold information or computation lines from a Mentat.\'94 
\par For a long minute, the Baron stared at him, then: \'93Say what you must say. Mentat.\'94
\par \'93The Padishah Emperor turned against House Atreides because the Duke's Warmasters Gurney Halleck and Duncan Idaho had trained a fighting force \endash  a small fighting force \endash 
 to within a hair as good as the Sardaukar. Some of them were even better. And the Duke was in a position to enlarge his force, to make it every bit as strong as the Emperor's.\'94
\par The Baron weighed this disclosure, then: \'93What has Arrakis to do with this?\'94
\par \'93It provides a pool of recruits already conditioned to the bitterest survival training.\'94 
\par The Baron shook his head. \'93You cannot mean the Fremen?\'94 
\par \'93I mean the Fremen.\'94
\par \'93Hah! Then why warn Rabban? There cannot be more than a handful of Fremen left after the Sardaukar pogrom and Rabban's oppression.\'94 
\par Hawat continued to stare at him silently.
\par \'93Not more than a handful!\'94 the baron repeated. \'93Rabban killed six thousand of them last year alone!\'94 
\par Still, Hawat stared at him.
\par \'93And the year before it was nine thousand,\'94 the baron said. \'93And before they left, the Sardaukar must've accounted for at least twenty thousand.\'94
\par \'93What are Rabban's troop losses for the past two years?\'94 Hawat asked.
\par The Baron rubbed his jowls. \'93Well, he has been recruiting rather heavily, to be sure. His agents make rather extravagant promises and \endash \'94 
\par \'93Shall we say thirty thousand in round numbers?\'94 Hawat asked. 
\par \'93That would seem a little high,\'94 the baron said.
\par \'93Quite the contrary,\'94 Hawat said. \'93I can read between the lines of Rabban's reports as well as you can. And you certainly must've understood my reports from our agents.\'94
\par \'93Arrakis is a fierce planet,\'94 the Baron said. \'93Storm losses can \endash \'94 
\par \'93We both know the figure for storm accretion,\'94 Hawat said.
\par \'93What if he has lost thirty thousand?\'94 the Baron demanded, and blood darkened his face.
\par \'93By your own count,\'94 Hawat said, \'93he killed fifteen thousand over two years while losing twice that number. You say the Sardaukar accoun
ted for another twenty thousand, possibly a few more. And I've seen the transportation manifests for their return from Arrakis. If they killed twenty thousand, they lost almost five for one. Why won't you face these figures, Baron, and understand what the
y mean?\'94
\par The Baron spoke in a coldly measured cadence: \'93This is your job, Mentat. What do they mean?\'94
\par \'93I gave you Duncan Idaho's head count on the sietch he visited,\'94 Hawat said. \'93It all fits. If they had just two hundred and fifty such sietch communities, 
their population would be about five million. My best estimate is that they had at least twice that many communities. You scatter your population on such a planet.\'94 
\par \'93Ten million?\'94 The Baron's jowls quivered with amazement. 
\par \'93At least.\'94
\par The Baron pursed his fat lips. The beady eyes stared without wavering at Hawat. Is this true Mentat computation? he wondered. How could this be and no one suspect?
\par \'93We haven't even cut heavily into their birth-rate-growth figure,\'94 Hawat said. \'93We've just weeded out some of their less successful specimens, leaving the strong to grow stronger \endash  just like on Salusa Secundus.\'94
\par \'93Salusa Secundus!\'94 the Baron barked. \'93What has this to do with the Emperor's prison planet?\'94
\par \'93A man who survives Salusa Secundus starts out being tougher than most others,\'94 Hawat said. \'93When you add the very best of military training \endash \'94
\par \'93Nonsense! By your argument, I could recruit from among the Fremen after the way they've been oppressed by my nephew.\'94 
\par Hawat spoke in a mild voice: \'93Don't you oppress any of your troops?\'94 
\par \'93Well\'85 I\'85 but \endash \'94
\par \'93Oppression is a relative thing,\'94 Hawat said. \'93Your fighting men are much better off than those around them, heh? They see unpleasant alternative to being soldiers of the Baron, heh?\'94 
\par The Baron fell silent, eyes unfocused. The possibilities \endash  had Rabban unwittingly given House Harkonnen its ultimate weapon?
\par Presently he said: \'93How could you be sure of the loyalty of such recruits?\'94
\par \'93I would take them in small groups, not larger than platoon strength,\'94 Hawat said. \'93I'd remov
e them from their oppressive situation and isolate them with a training cadre of people who understood their background, preferably people who had preceded them from the same oppressive situation. Then I'd fill them with the mystique that their planet had
 really been a secret training ground to produce just such superior beings as themselves. And all the while, I'd show them what such superior beings could earn: rich living, beautiful women, fine mansions\'85 whatever they desired.\'94 
\par The Baron began to nod. \'93The way the Sardaukar live at home.\'94 
\par \'93The recruits come to believe in time that such a place as Salusa Secundus is justified because it produced them \endash  the elite. The commonest Sardaukar trooper lives a life, in many respects, as exalted as that of any member of a Great House.\'94 

\par \'93Such an idea!\'94 the Baron whispered.
\par \'93You begin to share my suspicions,\'94 Hawat said. 
\par \'93Where did such a thing start?\'94 the Baron asked.
\par \'93Ah, yes: Where did House Corrino originate? Were there people on Salusa Secundus before the Empe
ror sent his first contingents of prisoners there? Even the Duke Leto, a cousin on the distaff side, never knew for sure. Such questions are not encouraged.\'94
\par The Baron's eyes glazed with thought. \'93Yes, a very carefully kept secret. They'd use every device of \endash \'94
\par \'93Besides, what's there to conceal?\'94 Hawat asked. \'93That the Padishah Emperor has a prison planet? Everyone knows this. That he has \endash \'94 
\par \'93Count Fenring!\'94 the Baron blurted.
\par Hawat broke off, studied the Baron with a puzzled frown. \'93What of Count Fenring?\'94
\par \'93At my nephew's birthday several years ago,\'94 the Baron said. \'93This Imperial popinjay. Count Fenring, came as official observer and to\'85 ah, conclude a business arrangement between the Emperor and myself.\'94 
\par \'93So?\'94
\par \'93I\'85 ah, during one of our conversations, I believe I said something about making a prison planet of Arrakis. Fenring \endash \'94 
\par \'93What did you say exactly?\'94 Hawat asked. 
\par \'93Exactly? That was quite a while ago and \endash \'94
\par \'93My Lord Baron, if you wish to make the best use of my services, you must give me adequate information. Wasn't this conversation recorded?\'94
\par The Baron's face darkened with anger. \'93You're as bad as Piter! I don't like these \endash \'94
\par \'93Piter is no longer with you my Lord,\'94 Hawat said. \'93As to that, whatever did happen to Piter?\'94
\par \'93He became too familiar, too demanding of me,\'94 the Baron said.
\par \'93You assure me you don't waste a useful man,\'94 Hawat said. \'93Will you waste me by threats and quibbling? We were discussing what you said to Count Fenring.\'94
\par Slowly, the Baron composed his features. When the time comes, he thought, I'll remember his manner with me. Yes. I will remember.
\par \'93One moment,\'94 the Baron said, and he thought back to the meeting in his great hall. It helped to visualize the cone of silence in which they had stood. \'93I said something like this,\'94 the Baron said. \'93
The Emperor knows a certain amount of killing has always been an arm of business.\rquote  I was referring to our work force losses. Then I said something about considering another solution to the Arrakeen problem and I said the Emperor's prison planet ins
pired me to emulate him.\'94 
\par \'93Witch blood!\'94 Hawat snapped. \'93What did Fenring say?\'94 
\par \'93That's when he began questioning me about you.\'94 
\par Hawat sat back, closed his eyes in thought. \'93So that's why they started looking into Arrakis,\'94 he said. \'93Well, the thing's done.\'94 He opened his eyes. \'93They must have spies all over Arrakis by now. Two years!\'94 
\par \'93But certainly my innocent suggestion that \endash \'94 
\par \'93Nothing is innocent in an Emperor's eyes! What were your instructions to Rabban?\'94 
\par \'93Merely that he should teach Arrakis to fear us.\'94 
\par Hawat shook his head. \'93You now have two alternatives, Baron. You can kill off the natives, wipe them out entirely, or \endash \'94 
\par \'93Waste an entire work force?\'94
\par \'93Would you prefer to have the Emperor and those Great Houses he can still swing behind him come in here and perform a curettement, scrape out Giedi Prime like a hollow gourd?\'94 
\par The Baron studied his Mentat, then: \'93He wouldn't dare!\'94 
\par \'93Wouldn't he?\'94 
\par The Baron's lips quivered. \'93What is your alternative?\'94 
\par \'93Abandon your dear nephew, Rabban.\'94 
\par \'93Aband\'85 \'94 The Baron broke off, stared at Hawat.
\par \'93Send him no more troops, no aid of any kind. Don't answer his messages other than to say you've heard of the terrible way he's handled things on Arrakis and you intend to take corrective measures as soon as you're
 able. I'll arrange to have some of your messages intercepted by Imperial spies.\'94 
\par \'93But what of the spice, the revenues, the \endash \'94
\par \'93Demand your baronial profits, but be careful how you make your demands. Require fixed sums of Rabban. We can \endash \'94 
\par The Baron turned his hands palms up. \'93But how can I be certain that my weasel nephew isn't \endash \'94
\par \'93We still have our spies on Arrakis. Tell Rabban he either meets the spice quotas you set him or he'll be replaced.\'94 
\par \'93I know my nephew,\'94 the Baron said. \'93This would only make him oppress the population even more.\'94
\par \'93Of course he will!\'94 Hawat snapped. \'93You don't want that stopped now! You merely want your own hands clean. Let Rabban make your Salusa Secundus for you. There's no need even to send him any prisoners. He has all the 
population required. If Rabban is driving his people to meet your spice quotas, then the Emperor need suspect no other motive. That's reason enough for putting the planet on the rack. And you, Baron, will not show by word or action that there's any other 
reason for this.\'94
\par The Baron could not keep the sly tone of admiration out of his voice. \'93Ah, Hawat, you are a devious one. Now, how do we move into Arrakis and make use of what Rabban prepares?\'94 
\par \'93That's the simplest thing of all, Baron. If you set each year's quota a bit higher than the one before, matters will soon reach a head there. Production will drop off. You can remove Rabban and take over yourself\'85 to correct the mess.\'94
\par \'93It fits,\'94 the Baron said. \'93But I can feel myself tiring of all this. I'm preparing another to take over Arrakis for me.\'94 
\par Hawat studied the fat round face across from him. Slowly the old soldier-spy began to nod his head. \'93Feyd-Rautha,\'94 he said. \'93So that's the reason for the oppression now. You're very devious yourself, Baron. Perhap
s we can incorporate these two schemes. Yes. Your Feyd-Rautha can go to Arrakis as their savior. He can win the populace. Yes.\'94
\par The Baron smiled. And behind his smile, he asked himself: Now, how does this fit in with Hawat's personal scheming?
\par And Hawat, s
eeing that he was dismissed, arose and left the red-walled room. As he walked, he could not put down the disturbing unknowns that cropped into every computation about Arrakis. This new religious leader that Gurney Halleck hinted at from his hiding place a
mong the smugglers, this Muad'Dib.
\par Perhaps I should not have told the Baron to let this religion flourish where it will, even among the folk of pan and graben, he told himself. But it's well known that repression makes a religion flourish.
\par And he thought about Halleck's reports on Fremen battle tactics. The tactics smacked of Halleck himself\'85 and Idaho\'85 and even of Hawat.
\par Did Idaho survive? he asked himself.
\par But this was a futile question. He did not yet ask himself if it was possible that Paul had survived.
 He knew the Baron was convinced that all Atreides were dead. The Bene Gesserit witch had been his weapon, the Baron admitted. And that could only mean an end to all \endash  even to the woman's own son.
\par What a poisonous hate she must've had for the Atreides, he thought. Something like the hate I hold for this Baron. Will my blow be as final and complete as hers?
\par 
\par 
\par There is in all things a pattern that is part of our universe. It has symmetry, elegance, and grace \endash  those qualities you find always in that which the
 true artist captures. You can find it in the turning of the seasons, in the way sand trails along a ridge, in the branch clusters of the creosote bush or the pattern of its leaves. We try to copy these patterns in our lives and our society, seeking the r
hythms, the dances, the forms that comfort. Yet, it is possible to see peril in the finding of ultimate perfection. It is clear that the ultimate pattern contains its own fixity. In such perfection, all things move toward death.
\par -from \'93The Collected Sayings of Muad'Dib\'94 by the Princess Irulan
\par 
\par Paul-Muad'Dib remembered that there had been a meal heavy with spice essence. He clung to this memory because it was an anchor point and he could tell himself from this vantage that his immediate experience must be a dream.
\par I am a theater of processes, he told himself. I am a prey to the imperfect vision, to the race consciousness and its terrible purpose.
\par Yet, he could not escape the fear that he had somehow overrun himself, lost his position in time, so that past and 
future and present mingled without distinction. It was a kind of visual fatigue and it came, he knew, from the constant necessity of holding the prescient future as a kind of memory that was in itself a thing intrinsically of the past.
\par Chani prepared the meal for me, he told himself.
\par Yet Chani was deep in the south \endash  in the cold country where the sun was hot \endash  secreted in one of the new sietch strongholds, safe with their son, Leto II.
\par Or, was that a thing yet to happen?
\par No, he reassured himself, for Alia-the-Strange-One, his sister, had gone there with his mother and with Chani \endash  a twenty-thumper trip into the south, riding a Reverend Mother's palanquin fixed to the back of a wild maker.
\par He shied away from thought of riding the giant worms, asking himself: Or is Alia yet to be born?
\par I was on razzia, Paul recalled. We went raiding to recover the water of our dead in Arrakeen. And I found the remains of my father in the funeral pyre. I enshrined the skull of my father in a Fremen rock mound overlooking Harg Pass.
\par Or was that a thing yet to be?
\par My wounds are real, Paul told himself. My scars are real. The shrine of my father's skull is real.
\par Still in the dreamlike state, Paul remembered that Harah, Jamis\rquote  wife, had intruded on him once to say there'd been a figh
t in the sietch corridor. That had been the interim sietch before the women and children had been sent into the deep south. Harah had stood there in the entrance to the inner chamber, the black wings of her hair tied back by water rings on a chain. She ha
d held aside the chamber's hangings and told him that Chani had just killed someone.
\par This happened, Paul told himself. This was real, not born out of its time and subject to change.
\par Paul remembered he had rushed out to find Chani standing beneath the yellow
 globes of the corridor, clad in a brilliant blue wraparound robe with hood thrown back, a flush of exertion on her elfin features. She had been sheathing her crysknife. A huddled group had been hurrying away down the corridor with a burden.
\par And Paul remembered telling himself: You always know when they're carrying a body.
\par Chani's water rings, worn openly in sietch on a cord around her neck, tinkled as she turned toward him. 
\par \'93Chani, what is this?\'94 he asked.
\par \'93I dispatched one who came to challenge you in single combat, Usul.\'94 
\par \'93You killed him?\'94 
\par \'93Yes. But perhaps I should've left him for Harah.\'94 
\par (And Paul recalled how the faces of the people around them had showed appreciation for these words. Even Harah had laughed.) 
\par \'93But he came to challenge me!\'94 
\par \'93You trained me yourself in the weirding way, Usul.\'94 
\par \'93Certainly! But you shouldn't \endash \'94 
\par \'93I was born in the desert, Usul. I know how to use a crysknife.\'94 
\par He suppressed his anger, tried to talk reasonably. \'93This may all be true, Chani, but \endash \'94
\par \'93I am no longer a child hunting scorpions in the sietch by the light of a handglobe, Usul. I do not play games.\'94
\par Paul glared at her, caught by the odd ferocity beneath her casual attitude.
\par \'93He was not worthy, Usul,\'94 Chani said. \'93I'd not disturb your meditations with the likes of him.\'94 She moved closer, looking at him out of the corners of her eyes, dropping her voice so that only he might hear. \'93
And, beloved, when it's learned that a challenger may face me and be brought to shameful death by Muad'Dib's woman, there'll be fewer challengers.\'94
\par Yes, Paul told himself, that had certainly happened. It was true-past. And the number of challengers testing the new blade of Muad'Dib did drop dramatically.
\par Somewhere, in a world not-of-the-dream, there was a hint of motion, the cry of a nightbird.
\par I dream, Paul reassured himself. It's the spice meal.
\par Still, there was about him a feeling of abandonment. He wondered it if might be possible that his ruh-spirit had slipped over somehow into the world where the Fremen believed he had his true existence \endash 
 into the alam al-mithal, the world of similitudes, that metaphysical realm where all physical limitations were removed. And he knew fear at the thought of such a place, because removal of all limitations meant removal of all points of reference. 
In the landscape of a myth he could not orient himself and say: \'93I am I because I am here.\'94
\par His mother had said once: \'93The people are divided, some of them, in how they think of you.\'94
\par I must be waking from the dream, Paul told himself. For this had happened \endash  these words from his mother, the Lady Jessica who was now a Reverend Mother of the Fremen, these words had passed through reality.
\par Jessica was fearful of the religious relationship between himself and the Fremen, Paul knew. She didn't like the fact tha
t people of both sietch and graben referred to Muad'Dib as Him. And she went questioning among the tribes, sending out her Sayyadina spies, collecting their answers and brooding on them.
\par She had quoted a Bene Gesserit proverb to him: \'93When religion and politics travel in the same cart, the riders believe nothing can stand in their way. Their movement become headlong \endash 
 faster and faster and faster. They put aside all thought of obstacles and forget that a precipice does not show itself to the man in a blind rush until it's too late.\'94
\par Paul recalled that he had sat there in his mother's quarters, in the inner chamber shrouded by dark hangings with their surfaces covered by woven patterns out of Fremen mythology. He had sat there, hearing her out, noting the way she was always observing 
\endash  even when her eyes were lowered. Her oval face had new lines in it at the corners of the mouth, but the hair was still like polished bronze. The wide-set green eyes, though, hid beneath their over-casting of spice-imbued blue.
\par \'93The Fremen have a simple, practical religion,\'94 he said. 
\par \'93Nothing about religion is simple,\'94 she warned.
\par But Paul, seeing the clouded future that still hung over them, found himself swayed by anger. He could only say: \'93Religion unifies our forces. It's our mystique.\'94
\par \'93You deliberately cultivate this air, this bravura,\'94 she charged. \'93You never cease indoctrinating.\'94 
\par \'93Thus you yourself taught me,\'94 he said.
\par But she had been full of contentions and arguments that day. It had been the day of the circumcision ceremony for little Leto. Paul had understood some of the reasons for her upset. She had never accepted his liaison \endash  the \'93marriage of youth\'94
 \endash  with Chani. But Chani had produced an Atreides son, and Jessica had found herself unable to reject the child with the mother.
\par Jessica had stirred finally under his stare, said: \'93You think me an unnatural mother.\'94 
\par \'93Of course not.\'94
\par \'93I see the way you watch me when I'm with your sister. You don't understand about your sister.\'94
\par \'93I know why Alia is different,\'94 he said. \'93She was unborn, part of you, when you changed the Water of Life. She \endash \'94 
\par \'93You know nothing of it!\'94
\par And Paul, suddenly unable to express the knowledge gained out of its time, said only: \'93I don't think you unnatural.\'94 
\par She saw his distress, said: \'93There is a thing, Son.\'94 
\par \'93Yes?\'94 
\par \'93I do love your Chani. I accept her.\'94
\par This was real, Paul told himself. This wasn't the imperfect vision to be changed by the twistings out of time's own birth.
\par The reassurance gave him a new hold on his world. Bits of solid reality b
egan to dip through the dream state into his awareness. He knew suddenly that he was in a hiereg, a desert camp. Chani had planted their stilltent on flour-sand for its softness. That could only mean Chani was near by \endash 
 Chani, his soul, Chani his Sihaya, sweet as the desert spring, Chani up from the palmaries of the deep south.
\par Now, he remembered her singing a sand chanty to him in the time for sleep.
\par 
\par \'93O my soul, 
\par Have no taste for Paradise this night, 
\par And I swear by Shai-hulud 
\par You will go there, 
\par Obedient to my love.\'94
\par 
\par And she had sung the walking song lovers shared on the sand, its rhythm like the drag of the dunes against the feet:
\par 
\par \'93Tell me of thine eyes 
\par And I will tell thee of thy heart. 
\par Tell me of thy feet 
\par And I will tell thee of thy hands. 
\par Tell me of thy sleeping 
\par And I will tell thee of thy waking. 
\par Tell me of thy desires
\par And I will tell thee of thy need.\'94
\par 
\par He had heard someone strumming a baliset in another tent. And he'd thought then of Gurney Halleck. Reminded by the familiar instrument, he 
had thought of Gurney whose face he had seen in a smuggler band, but who had not seen him, could not see him or know of him lest that inadvertently lead the Harkonnens to the son of the Duke they had killed.
\par But the style of the player in the night, the di
stinctiveness of the fingers on the baliset's strings, brought the real musician back to Paul's memory. It had been Chatt the Leaper, captain of the Fedaykin, leader of the death commandos who guarded Muad'Dib.
\par We are in the desert, Paul remembered. We are in the central erg beyond the Harkonnen patrols. I am here to walk the sand, to lure a maker and mount him by my own cunning that I may be a Fremen entire.
\par He felt now the maula pistol at his belt, the crysknife. He felt the silence surrounding him.
\par It was that special pre-morning silence when the nightbirds had gone and the day creatures had not yet signaled their alertness to their enemy, the sun.
\par \'93You must ride the sand in the light of day that Shai-hulud shall see and know you have no fear,\'94 Stilgar had said. \'93Thus we turn our time around and set ourselves to sleep this night.\'94 
\par Quietly, Paul sat up, feeling the looseness of a slacked stillsuit around his body, the shadowed stilltent beyond. So softly he moved, yet Chani heard him.
\par She spoke from the tent's gloom, another shadow there: \'93It's not yet full light, beloved.\'94 
\par \'93Sihaya,\'94 he said, speaking with half a laugh in his voice.
\par \'93You call me your desert spring,\'94 she said, \'93but this day I'm thy goad. I am the Sayyadina who watches that the rites be obeyed.\'94 
\par He began tightening his stillsuit. \'93You told me once the words of the Kitab al-Ibar,\'94 he said. \'93You told me: \lquote Woman is thy field; go then to thy field and till it.\rquote  \'93
\par \'93I am the mother of thy firstborn,\'94 she agreed.
\par He saw her in the grayness matching him movement for movement, securing her stillsuit for the open desert. \'93You should get all the rest you can,\'94 she said.
\par He recognized her love for him speaking then and chided her gently: \'93The Sayyadina of the Watch does not caution or warn the candidate.\'94
\par She slid across to his side, touched his cheek with her palm. \'93Today, I am both the watcher and the woman.\'94 
\par \'93You should've left this duty to another,\'94 he said.
\par \'93Waiting is bad enough at best,\'94 she said. \'93I'd sooner be at thy side.\'94
\par He kissed her palm be
fore securing the faceflap of his suit, then turned and cracked the seal of the tent. The air that came in to them held the chill not-quite-dryness that would precipitate trace dew in the dawn. With it came the smell of a pre-spice mass, the mass they had
 detected off to the northeast, and that told them there would be a maker near by.
\par Paul crawled through the sphincter opening, stood on the sand and stretched the sleep from his muscles. A faint green-pearl luminescence etched the eastern horizon. The tents
 of his troop were small false dunes around him in the gloom. He saw movement off to the left \endash  the guard, and knew they had seen him.
\par They knew the peril he faced this day. Each Fremen had faced it. They gave him this last few moments of isolation now that he might prepare himself.
\par It must be done today, he told himself.
\par He thought of the power he wielded in the face of the pogrom \endash  the old men who sent their sons to him to be trained in the weirding way of battle, the old men who listened to him now in co
uncil and followed his plans, the men who returned to pay him that highest Fremen compliment: \'93Your plan worked, Muad'Dib.\'94 
\par Yet the meanest and smallest of the Fremen warriors could do a thing that he had never done. And Paul knew his leadership suffered from the omnipresent knowledge of this difference between them. 
\par He had not ridden the maker.
\par Oh, he'd gone up with the others for training trips and raids, but he had not made his own voyage. Until he did, his world was bounded by the abilities of others.
 No true Fremen could permit this. Until he did this thing himself, even the great southlands \endash  the area some twenty thumpers beyond the erg \endash 
 were denied him unless he ordered a palanquin and rode like a Reverend Mother or one of the sick and wounded.
\par Memory returned to him of his wrestling with his inner awareness during the night. He saw a strange parallel here \endash 
 if he mastered the maker, his rule was strengthened; if he mastered the inward eye, this carried its own measure of command. But beyond them both lay the clouded area, the Great Unrest where all the universe seemed embroiled.
\par The differences in the ways he comprehended the universe haunted him \endash  accuracy matched with inaccuracy. He saw it in situ. Yet, when it was born, when it came into the pres
sures of reality, the now had its own life and grew with its own subtle differences. Terrible purpose remained. Race consciousness remained. And over all loomed the jihad, bloody and wild.
\par Chani joined him outside the tent, hugging her elbows, looking up at him from the corners of her eyes the way she did when she studied his mood.
\par \'93Tell me again about the waters of thy birthworld, Usul,\'94 she said.
\par He saw that she was trying to distract him, ease his mind of tensions before the deadly test. It was growing lighter, and he noted that some of his Fedaykin were already striking their tents.
\par \'93I'd rather you told me about the sietch and about our son,\'94 he said. \'93Does our Leto yet hold my mother in his palm?\'94 
\par \'93It's Alia he holds as well,\'94 she said. \'93And he grows rapidly. He'll be a big man.\'94 
\par \'93What's it like in the south?\'94 he asked.
\par \'93When you ride the maker you'll see for yourself,\'94 she said. 
\par \'93But I wish to see it first through your eyes.\'94 
\par \'93It's powerfully lonely,\'94 she said.
\par He touched the nezhoni scarf at her forehead where it protruded from her stillsuit cap. \'93Why will you not talk about the sietch?\'94 
\par \'93I have talked about it. The sietch is a lonely place without our men. It's a place of work. We labor in the factories and the potting rooms. There are weapons to 
be made, poles to plant that we may forecast the weather, spice to collect for the bribes. There are dunes to be planted to make them grow and to anchor them. There are fabrics and rugs to make, fuel cells to charge. There are children to train that the t
ribe's strength may never be lost.\'94 
\par \'93Is nothing then pleasant in the sietch?\'94 he asked.
\par \'93The children are pleasant. We observe the rites. We have sufficient food. Sometimes one of us may come north to be with her man. Life must go on.\'94
\par \'93My sister, Alia \endash  is she accepted yet by the people?\'94 
\par Chani turned toward him in the growing dawnlight. Her eyes bored into him. \'93It's a thing to be discussed another time, beloved.\'94 
\par \'93Let us discuss it now.\'94 
\par \'93You should conserve your energies for the test,\'94 she said.
\par He saw that he had touched something sensitive, hearing the withdrawal in her voice. \'93The unknown brings its own worries,\'94 he said.
\par Presently she nodded, said, \'93There is yet\'85 misunderstanding because of Alia's strangeness. The women are fearful because a child little more than an infant talks\'85 of things that only an adult should know. They do not understand the\'85
 change in the womb that made Alia\'85 different.\'94
\par \'93There is trouble?\'94 he asked. And he thought: I've seen visions of trouble over Alia.
\par Chani looked toward the growing line of the sunrise. \'93Some of the women banded to appeal to the Reverend Mother. They demanded she exorcise the demon in her daughter. They quoted the scripture: \lquote Suffer not a witch to live among us.\rquote  \'93

\par \'93And what did my mother say to them?\'94
\par \'93She recited the law and sent the women away abashed. She said: \lquote If Alia incites trouble, it is the fault of authority for not foreseeing and preventing the trouble.\rquote 
 And she tried to explain how the change had worked on Alia in the womb. But the women were angry because they had been embarrassed. They went away muttering.\'94 
\par There will be trouble because of Alia, he thought.
\par A crystal blowing of sand touched the exposed portions of his face, bringing the scent of the pre-spice mass. \'93El Sayal, the rain of sand that brings the morning,\'94 he said.
\par He looked out across the gray light of the desert landscape, the landscape beyond pity, the sand that was form absorbed in itself. Dry lightning streaked a dark corner to the south \endash  sign that a storm had built up its 
static charge there. The roll of thunder boomed long after.
\par \'93The voice that beautifies the land,\'94 Chani said.
\par More of his men were stirring out of their tents. Guards were coming in from the rims. Everything around him moved smoothly in the ancient routine that required no orders.
\par \'93Give as few orders as possible,\'94 his father had told him\'85 once\'85 long ago. \'93Once you've given orders on a subject, you must always give orders on that subject.\'94
\par The Fremen knew this rule instinctively.
\par The troop's watermaster began the morning chanty, adding to it now the call for the rite to initiate a sandrider.
\par \'93The world is a carcass,\'94 the man chanted, his voice wailing across the dunes. \'93Who can turn away the Angel of Death? What Shai-hulud has decreed must be.\'94
\par Paul listened, recognizing that these were the words that also began the death chant of his Fedaykin, the words the death commandos recited as they buried themselves into battle.
\par Will there be a rock shrine here this day to mark the passing of another soul? Paul asked himself. Will Fremen stop here in the future, each to add another stone and think on Muad'Dib who died in this place?
\par He knew this was among the alternatives today, a fact along lines of the future radiating from this position in time-space. The imperfect v
ision plagued him. The more he resisted his terrible purpose and fought against the coming of the jihad, the greater the turmoil that wove through his prescience. His entire future was becoming like a river hurtling toward a chasm \endash 
 the violent nexus beyond which all was fog and clouds.
\par \'93Stilgar approaches,\'94 Chani said. \'93I must stand apart now, beloved. Now, I must be Sayyadina and observe the rite that it may be reported truly in the Chronicles.\'94 She looked up at him and, for a moment, her reserve slipped,
 then she had herself under control. \'93When this is past, I shall prepare thy breakfast with my own hands,\'94 she said. She turned away.
\par Stilgar moved toward him across the flour sand, stirring up little dust puddles. The dark niches of his eyes remained stea
dy on Paul with their untamed stare. The glimpse of black beard above the stillsuit mask, the lines of craggy cheeks, could have been wind-etched from the native rock for all their movement.
\par The man carried Paul's banner on its staff \endash  the green and black banner with a water tube in the staff \endash 
 that already was a legend in the land. Half pridefully, Paul thought: I cannot do the simplest thing without its becoming a legend. They will mark how I parted from Chani, how I greet Stilgar \endash  every move I make this
 day. Live or die, it is a legend. I must not die. Then it will be only legend and nothing to stop the jihad.
\par Stilgar planted the staff in the sand beside Paul, dropped his hands to his sides. The blue-within-blue eyes remained level and intent. And Paul thought how his own eyes already were assuming this mask of color from the spice.
\par \'93They denied us the Hajj,\'94 Stilgar said with ritual solemnity.
\par As Chani had taught him, Paul responded: \'93Who can deny a Fremen the right to walk or ride where he wills?\'94 
\par \'93I am a Naib,\'94 Stilgar said, \'93never to be taken alive. I am a leg of the death tripod that will destroy our foes.\'94
\par Silence settled over them.
\par Paul glanced at the other Fremen scattered over the sand beyond Stilgar, the way they stood without moving for this mo
ment of personal prayer. And he thought of how the Fremen were a people whose living consisted of killing, an entire people who had lived with rage and grief all of their days, never once considering what might take the place of either \endash 
 except for a dream with which Liet-Kynes had infused them before his death.
\par \'93Where is the Lord who led us through the land of desert and of pits?\'94 Stilgar asked.
\par \'93He is ever with us,\'94 the Fremen chanted.
\par Stilgar squared his shoulders, stepped closer to Paul and lowered his voice. \'93Now, remember what I told you. Do it simply and directly \endash 
 nothing fancy. Among our people, we ride the maker at the age of twelve. You are more than six years beyond that age and not born to this life. You don't have to impress anyone with your co
urage. We know you are brave. All you must do is call the maker and ride him.\'94 
\par \'93I will remember,\'94 Paul said.
\par \'93See that you do. I'll not have you shame my teaching.\'94 
\par Stilgar pulled a plastic rod about a meter long from beneath his robe. The thing was pointed at one end, had a spring-wound clapper at the other end. \'93I prepared this thumper myself. It's a good one. Take it.\'94
\par Paul felt the warm smoothness of the plastic as he accepted the thumper.
\par \'93Shishakli has your hooks,\'94 Stilgar said. \'93He'll hand them to you as you step out onto that dune over there.\'94 He pointed to his right. \'93Call a big maker, Usul. Show us the way.\'94 
\par Paul marked the tone of Stilgar's voice \endash  half ritual and half that of a worried friend.
\par In that instant, the sun seemed to bound above the horizon. The sky took on the silvered gray-blue that warned this would be a day of extreme heat and dryness even for Arrakis.
\par \'93It is the time of the scalding day,\'94 Stilgar said, and now his voice was entirely ritual. \'93Go, Usul, and ride the maker, travel the sand as a leader of men.\'94
\par Paul saluted his banner, noting how the green and black flag hung limply now that the dawn wind had died. He turned toward the dune Stilgar had indicated \endash  a dirty tan slope with an S-track crest. Already, most of the troop wa
s moving out in the opposite direction, climbing the other dune that had sheltered their camp.
\par One robed figure remained in Paul's path: Shishakli, a squad leader of the Fedaykin, only his slope-lidded eyes visible between stillsuit cap and mask.
\par Shishakli presented two thin, whiplike shafts as Paul approached. The shafts were about a meter and a half long with glistening plasteel hoods at one end, roughened at the other end for a firm grip.
\par Paul accepted them both in his left hand as required by the ritual.
\par \'93They are my own hooks,\'94 Shishakli said in a husky voice. \'93They never have failed.\'94
\par Paul nodded, maintaining the necessary silence, moved past the man and up the dune slope. At the crest, he glanced back, saw the troop scattering like a flight of insects
, their robes fluttering. He stood alone now on the sandy ridge with only the horizon in front of him, the flat and unmoving horizon. This was a good dune Stilgar had chosen, higher than its companions for the viewpoint vantage.
\par Stooping, Paul planted the thumper deep into the windward face where the sand was compacted and would give maximum transmission to the drumming. Then he hesitated, reviewing the lessons, reviewing the life-and-death necessities that faced him.
\par When he threw the latch, the thumper would begin its summons. Across the sand, a giant worm \endash  a maker \endash 
 would hear and come to the drumming. With the whiplike hook-staffs, Paul knew, he could mount the maker's high curving back. For as long as a forward edge of a worm's ring segment was held op
en by a hook, open to admit abrasive sand into the more sensitive interior, the creature would not retreat beneath the desert. It would, in fact, roll its gigantic body to bring the opened segment as far away from the desert surface as possible.
\par I am a sandrider, Paul told himself.
\par He glanced down at the hooks in his left hand, thinking that he had only to shift those hooks down the curve of a maker's immense side to make the creature roll and turn, guiding it where he willed. He had seen it done. He had be
en helped up the side of a worm for a short ride in training. The captive worm could be ridden until it lay exhausted and quiescent upon the desert surface and a new maker must be summoned.
\par Once he was past this test, Paul knew, he was qualified to make the twenty-thumper journey into the southland \endash  to rest and restore himself \endash 
 into the south where the women and the families had been hidden from the pogrom among the new palmaries and sietch warrens.
\par He lifted his head and looked to the south, reminding himself that the maker summoned wild from the erg was an unknown quantity, and the one who summoned it was equally unknown to this test.
\par \'93You must gauge the approaching maker carefully,\'94 Stilgar had explained. \'93You must stand close enough that you can mount it as it passes, yet not so close that it engulfs you.\'94
\par With abrupt decision, Paul released the thumper's latch. The clapper began revolving and the summons drummed through the sand, a measured \'93lump\'85 lump\'85 lump\'85 \'94 
\par He straightened, scanning the horizon, remembering Stilgar's words: \'93Judge the line of approach carefully. Remember, a worm seldom makes an unseen approach to a thumper. Listen all the same. You may often hear it before you see it.\'94
\par And Chani's words of caution, whispered at night when her fear for him overcame her, filled his mind: \'93
When you take your stand along the maker's path, you must remain utterly still. You must think like a patch of sand. Hide beneath your cloak and become a little dune in your very essence.\'94
\par Slowly, he scanned the horizon, listening, watching for the signs he had been taught.
\par It came from the southeast, a distant hissing, a sand-whisper. Presently he saw the faraway outline of the creature's track against the dawnlight and realized he had never before seen a maker this 
large, never heard of one this size. It appeared to be more than half a league long, and the rise of the sandwave at its cresting head was like the approach of a mountain.
\par This is nothing I have seen by vision or in life, Paul cautioned himself. He hurried across the path of the thing to take his stand, caught up entirely by the rushing needs of this moment.
\par 
\par = = = = = = 
\par 
\par \'93Control the coinage and the courts \endash  let the rabble have the rest.\'94 Thus the Padishah Emperor advises you. And he tells you: \'93If you want profits, you must rule.\'94 There is truth in these words, but I ask myself: \'93
Who are the rabble and who are the ruled?\'94
\par -Muad'Dib's Secret Message to the Landsraad from \'93Arrakis Awakening\'94 by the Princess Irulan
\par 
\par A thought came unbidden to Jessica's mind: Paul will be undergoing his sandrider test at any moment now. They try to conceal this fact from me, but it's obvious. 
\par And Chani has gone on some mysterious errand.
\par Jessica sat in her resting chamber, catching a moment of quiet between the night's classe
s. It was a pleasant chamber, but not as large as the one she had enjoyed in Sietch Tabr before their flight from the pogrom. Still, this place had thick rugs on the floor, soft cushions, a low coffee table near at hand, multicolored hangings on the walls
, and soft yellow glowglobes overhead. The room was permeated with the distinctive acrid furry odor of a Fremen sietch that she had come to associate with a sense of security.
\par Yet she knew she would never overcome a feeling of being in an alien place. It was the harshness that the rugs and hangings attempted to conceal.
\par A faint tinkling-drumming-slapping penetrated to the resting chamber. Jessica knew it for a birth celebration, probably Subiay's. Her time was near. And Jessica knew she'd see the baby soon enough \endash 
 a blue-eyed cherub brought to the Reverend Mother for blessing. She knew also that her daughter, Alia, would be at the celebration and would report on it.
\par It was not yet time for the nightly prayer of parting. They wouldn't have started a birth celebration near the time of ceremony that mourned the slave raids of Poritrin, Bela Tegeuse, Rossak, and Harmonthep.
\par Jessica sighed. She knew she was trying to keep her thoughts off her son and the dangers he faced \endash  the pit traps with their poisoned barbs, 
the Harkonnen raids (although these were growing fewer as the Fremen took their toll of aircraft and raiders with the new weapons Paul had given them), and the natural dangers of the desert \endash  makers and thirst and dust chasms.
\par She thought of calling for co
ffee and with the thought came that ever-present awareness of paradox in the Fremen way of life: how well they lived in these sietch caverns compared to the graben pyons; yet, how much more they endured in the open hajr of the desert than anything the Har
konnen bondsmen endured.
\par A dark hand inserted itself through the hangings beside her, deposited a cup upon the table and withdrew. From the cup arose the aroma of spiced coffee.
\par An offering from the birth celebration, Jessica thought.
\par She took the coffee an
d sipped it, smiling at herself. In what other society of our universe, she asked herself, could a person of my station accept an anonymous drink and quaff that drink without fear? I could alter any poison now before it did me harm, or course, but the don
or doesn't realize this.
\par She drained the cup, feeling the energy and lift of its contents \endash  hot and delicious.
\par And she wondered what other society would have such a natural regard for her privacy and comfort that the giver would intrude only enough to deposit the gift and not inflict her with the donor? Respect and love had sent the gift \endash 
 with only a slight tinge of fear.
\par Another element of the incident forced itself into her awareness: she had thought of coffee and it had appeared. There was nothing of tel
epathy here, she knew. It was the tau, the oneness of the sietch community, a compensation from the subtle poison of the spice diet they shared. The great mass of the people could never hope to attain the enlightenment the spice seed brought to her; they 
had not been trained and prepared for it. Their minds rejected what they could not understand or encompass. Still they felt and reacted sometimes like a single organism.
\par And the thought of coincidence never entered their minds.
\par Has Paul passed his test on the sand? Jessica asked herself. He's capable, but accident can strike down even the most capable. 
\par The waiting.
\par It's the dreariness, she thought. You can wait just so long. Then the dreariness of the waiting overcomes you. 
\par There was all manner of waiting in their lives.
\par More than two years we've been here, she thought, and twice that number at least to go before we can even hope to think of trying to wrest Arrakis from the Harkonnen governor, the Mudir Nahya, the Beast Rabban.
\par \'93Reverend Mother?\'94
\par The voice from outside the hangings at her door was that of Harah, the other woman in Paul's menage. 
\par \'93Yes, Harah.\'94
\par The hangings parted and Harah seemed to glide through them. She wore sietch sandals, a red-yellow wraparound that exposed her arms almost to the shoul
ders. Her black hair was parted in the middle and swept back like the wings of an insect, flat and oily against her head. The jutting, predatory features were drawn into an intense frown.
\par Behind Harah came Alia, a girl-child of about two years.
\par Seeing her daughter, Jessica was caught as she frequently was by Alia's resemblance to Paul at that age \endash 
 the same wide-eyed solemnity to her questing look, the dark hair and firmness of mouth. But there were subtle differences, too, and it was in these that most adults found Alia disquieting. The child \endash  little more than a toddler \endash 
 carried herself with a calmness and awareness beyond her years. Adults were shocked to find her laughing at a subtle play of words between the sexes. Or they'd catch themselves listening 
to her half-lisping voice, still blurred as it was by an unformed soft palate, and discover in her words sly remarks that could only be based on experiences no two-year-old had ever encountered.
\par Harah sank to a cushion with an exasperated sigh, frowned at the child.
\par \'93Alia.\'94 Jessica motioned to her daughter.
\par The child crossed to a cushion beside her mother, sank to it and clasped her mother's hand. The contact of flesh restored that mutual awareness they had shared since before Alia's birth. It wasn't a matter of shared thoughts \endash 
 although there were bursts of that if they touched while Jessica was changing the spice poison for a ceremony. It was something larger, an immediate awareness of another living spark, a sharp and poignant thing, a nerve-sympatico th
at made them emotionally one.
\par In the formal manner that befitted a member of her son's household, Jessica said: \'93Subakh ul kuhar, Harah. This night finds you well?\'94
\par With the same traditional formality, she said: \'93Subakh un nar. I am well.\'94 The words were almost toneless. Again, she sighed. 
\par Jessica sensed amusement from Alia.
\par \'93My brother's ghanima is annoyed with me,\'94 Alia said in her half-lisp.
\par Jessica marked the term Alia used to refer to Harah \endash  ghanima. In the subtleties of the Fremen tongue, the word meant \'93something acquired in battle\'94
 and with the added overtone that the something no longer was used for its original purpose. An ornament, a spearhead used as a curtain weight.
\par Harah scowled at the child. \'93Don't try to insult me, child. I know my place.\'94 
\par \'93What have you done this time, Alia?\'94 Jessica asked.
\par Harah answered; \'93Not only has she refused to play with the other children today, but she intruded where\'85 \'94
\par \'93I hid behind the hangings and watched Subiay's child being born,\'94 Alia said. \'93It's a boy. He cried and cried. What a set of lungs! When he'd cried long enough \endash \'94
\par \'93She came out and touched him,\'94 Harah said, \'93and he stopped crying. Everyone knows a Fremen baby must get his crying done at birth, if he's in sietch because he can never cry again lest he betray us on hajr.\'94
\par \'93He'd cried enough,\'94 Alia said. \'93I just wanted to feel his spark, his life. That's all. And when he felt me he didn't want to cry anymore.\'94 
\par \'93It's just made more talk among the people,\'94 Harah said.
\par \'93Subiay's boy is healthy?\'94 Jessica asked. She saw that something was troubling Harah deeply and wondered at it.
\par \'93Healthy as any mother could ask,\'94 Harah said. \'93They know Alia didn't hurt him. They didn't so much mind her touching him. He settled down right away and was happy. It was\'85 \'94 Harah shrugged.
\par \'93It's the strangeness of my daughter, is that it?\'94 Jessica asked. \'93It's the way she speaks of things beyond her years and of things no child her age could know \endash  things of the past.\'94
\par \'93How could she know what a child looked like on Bela Tegeuse?\'94 Harah demanded.
\par \'93But he does!\'94 Alia said, \'93Subiay's boy looks just like the son of Mitha born before the parting.\'94 
\par \'93Alia!\'94 Jessica said. \'93I warned you.\'94 
\par \'93But, Mother, I saw it and it was true and\'85 \'94 
\par Jessica shook her head, seeing the signs of disturbance in Harah's face. What have I borne? Jessica asked herself. A daughter who knew at birth everything that I knew\'85
 and more: everything revealed to her out of the corridors of the past by the Reverend Mothers within me.
\par \'93It's not just the things she says,\'94 Harah said. \'93It's the exercises, too: the way she sits and stares at a rock, moving only one muscle beside her nose, or a muscle on the back of a finger, or \endash \'94 
\par \'93Those are the Bene Gesserit training,\'94 Jessica said. \'93You know that, Harah. Would you deny my daughter her inheritance?\'94 
\par \'93Reverend Mother, you know these things don't matter to me,\'94 Harah said. \'93It's the people and the way they mutter. I feel danger in it. They say your daughter's a demon, that other children refuse to play with her, that she's \endash \'94
\par \'93She has so little in common with the other children,\'94 Jessica said. \'93She's no demon. It's just the \endash \'94 
\par \'93Of course she's not!\'94
\par Jessica found herself surprised at the vehemence in Harah's tone, glanced down at Alia. The child appeared lost in thought, radiating a sense of\'85 waiting. Jessica returned her attention to Harah.
\par \'93I respect the fact that you're a member of my son's household,\'94 Jessica said. (Alia stirred against her hand.) \'93You may speak openly with me of whatever's troubling you.\'94
\par \'93I will not be a member of your son's household much longer,\'94 Harah said. \'93
I've waited this long for the sake of my sons, the special training they receive as the children of Usul. It's little enough I could give them since it's known I don't share your son's bed.\'94 
\par Again Alia stirred beside her, half-sleeping, warm.
\par \'93You'd have made a good companion for my son, though,\'94 Jessica said. And she added to herself because such thoughts were ever with her: Companion\'85 not a wife. Jessica's thoughts went then straight to the cent
er, to the pang that came from the common talk in the sietch that her son's companionship with Chani had become a permanent thing, the marriage.
\par I love Chani, Jessica thought, but she reminded herself that love might have to step aside for royal necessity. Royal marriages had other reasons than love.
\par \'93You think I don't know what you plan for your son?\'94 Harah asked.
\par \'93What do you mean?\'94 Jessica demanded. 
\par \'93You plan to unite the tribes under Him,\'94 Harah said. 
\par \'93Is that bad?\'94 
\par \'93I see danger for him\'85 and Alia is part of that danger.\'94 
\par Alia nestled closer to her mother, eyes opened now and studying Harah.
\par \'93I've watched you two together,\'94 Harah said, \'93the way you touch. And Alia is like my own flesh because she's sister to one who is like my brother. I've watched o
ver her and guarded her from the time she was a mere baby, from the time of the razzia when we fled here. I've seen many things about her.\'94 
\par Jessica nodded, feeling disquiet begin to grow in Alia beside her.
\par \'93You know what I mean,\'94 Harah said. \'93The way she knew from the first what we were saying to her. When has there been another baby who knew the water discipline so young? What other baby's first words to her nurse were: \lquote I love you, Harah'?
\'94
\par Harah stared at Alia. \'93Why do you think I accept her insults? I know there's no malice in them.\'94 
\par Alia looked up at her mother.
\par \'93Yes, I have reasoning powers, Reverend Mother,\'94 Harah said. \'93I could have been of the Sayyadina. I have seen what I have seen.\'94
\par \'93Harah\'85 \'94 Jessica shrugged. \'93I don't know what to say.\'94 And she felt surprise at herself, because this literally was true.
\par Alia straightened, squared her shoulders. Jessica felt the sense of waiting ended, an emotion compounded of decision and sadness. 
\par \'93We made a mistake,\'94 Alia said. \'93Now we need Harah.\'94 
\par \'93It was the ceremony of the seed,\'94 Harah said, \'93when you changed the Water of Life, Reverend Mother, when Alia was yet unborn within you.\'94 
\par Need Harah? Jessica asked herself.
\par \'93Who else can talk among the people and make them begin to understand me?\'94 Alia asked.
\par \'93What would you have her do?\'94 Jessica asked. 
\par \'93She already knows what to do,\'94 Alia said.
\par \'93I will tell them the truth,\'94 Harah said. Her face seemed suddenly old and sad with its olive skin drawn into frown wrinkles, a witchery in the sharp features. \'93I will tel
l them that Alia only pretends to be a little girl, that she has never been a little girl.\'94 
\par Alia shook her head. Tears ran down her cheeks, and Jessica felt the wave of sadness from her daughter as though the emotion were her own.
\par \'93I know I'm a freak,\'94 Alia whispered. The adult summation coming from the child mouth was like a bitter confirmation.
\par \'93You're not a freak!\'94 Harah snapped. \'93Who dared say you're a freak?\'94
\par Again, Jessica marveled at the fierce note of protectiveness in Harah's voice. Jessica saw then that Alia had judged correctly \endash  they did need Harah. The tribe would understand Harah \endash  both her words and her emotions \endash 
 for it was obvious she loved Alia as though this were her own child. 
\par \'93Who said it?\'94 Harah repeated. 
\par \'93Nobody.\'94
\par Alia used a corner of Jessica's aba to wipe the tears from her face. She smoothed the robe where she had dampened and crumpled it.
\par \'93Then don't you say it,\'94 Harah ordered. 
\par \'93Yes, Harah.\'94
\par \'93Now,\'94 Harah said, \'93you may tell me what it was like so that I may tell the others. Tell me what it is that happened to you.\'94 
\par Alia swallowed, looked up at her mother. 
\par Jessica nodded.
\par \'93One day I woke up,\'94 Alia said. \'93It was like waking from sleep except that I could not remember going to sleep. I was in a warm, dark place. And I was frightened.\'94
\par Listening to the half-lisping voice of her daughter, Jessica remembered that day in the big cavern.
\par \'93When I was frightened,\'94 Alia said, \'93I tried to escape, but there was no way to escape. Then I saw a spark\'85 but it wasn't exactly like seeing it. The spark was just there with me and I felt the spark's emotions\'85
 soothing me, comforting me, telling me that way that everything would be all right. That was my mother.\'94
\par Harah rubbed at her eyes, smiled reassuringly at Alia. Yet there was a look of wildness in the eyes of the Fremen woman, an intensity as though they, too, were trying to hear Alia's words.
\par And Jessica thought: What do we really know of how such a one thinks\'85 out of her unique experiences and training and ancestry?
\par \'93Just when I felt safe and reassured,\'94 Alia said, \'93there, was another spark with us\'85 and everything was happening at once. The other spark was the old Reverend Mother. She was\'85 trading lives with my mother\'85 everything\'85
 and I was there with them, seeing it all\'85 everything. And it was over, and I was them and all the others and myself\'85 only it took me a long time to find myself again. There were so many others.\'94
\par \'93It was a cruel thing,\'94 Jessica said. \'93No being should wake into consciousness thus. The wonder of it is you could accept all that happened to you.\'94
\par \'93I couldn't do anything else!\'94 Alia said. \'93I didn't know how to reject or hide my consciousness\'85 or shut if off\'85 everything just happened\'85 everything\'85 \'94
\par \'93We didn't know,\'94 Harah murmured. \'93When we gave your mother the Water to change, we didn't know you existed within her.\'94
\par \'93Don't be sad about it, Harah,\'94 Alia said. \'93I shouldn't feel sorry for myself. After all, there's cause for happiness here: I'm a Reverend Mother. The tribe has two Rev\'85 \'94 
\par She broke off, tipping her head to listen.
\par Harah rocked back on her heels against the sitting cushion, stared at Alia, bringing her attention then up to Jessica's face. 
\par \'93Didn't you suspect?\'94 Jessica asked. 
\par \'93Sh-h-h-h,\'94 Alia said.
\par A distant rhythmic chanting came to them through the hangings that separated them from the sietch corridors. It grew louder, carrying distinct sounds now: \'93Ya! Ya! Yawm! Ya! Ya! Yawm! Mu zein, wallah! Ya! Ya! Yawm! Mu zein, Wallah!\'94 
\par The chanters passed the outer entrance, and their voices boomed through to the inner apartments. Slowly the sound receded.
\par When the sound had dimmed sufficiently, Jessica began the ritual, the sadness in her voice: \'93It was Ramadhan and April on Bela Tegeuse.\'94
\par \'93My family sat in their pool courtyard,\'94 Harah said, \'93in air bathed by the moisture tha
t arose from the spray of a fountain. There was a tree of portyguls, round and deep in color, near at hand. There was a basket with mish mish and baklawa and mugs of liban \endash 
 all manner of good things to eat. In our gardens and, in our flocks, there was peace\'85 peace in all the land.\'94 
\par \'93Life was full with happiness until the raiders came,\'94 Alia said.
\par \'93Blood ran cold at the scream of friends,\'94 Jessica said. And she felt the memories rushing through her out of all those other pasts she shared.
\par \'93La, la, la, the women cried,\'94 said Harah.
\par \'93The raiders came through the mushtamal, rushing at us with their knives dripping red from the lives of our men,\'94 Jessica said.
\par Silence came over the three of them as it was in all the apartments of the sietch, the silence while they remembered and kept their grief thus fresh.
\par Presently, Harah uttered the ritual ending to the ceremony, giving the words a harshness that Jessica had never before heard in them.
\par \'93We will never forgive and we will never forget,\'94 Harah said.
\par In the thoughtful quiet that followed her words, they heard a muttering of people, the swish of many robes. Jessica sensed someone standing beyond the hangings that shielded her chamber. 
\par \'93Reverend Mother?\'94
\par A woman's voice, and Jessica recognized it: the voice of Tharthar, one of Stilgar's wives. 
\par \'93What is it, Tharthar?\'94 
\par \'93There is trouble, Reverend Mother.\'94
\par Jessica felt a constriction at her heart, an abrupt fear for Paul. \'93Paul\'85\'94 she gasped.
\par Tharthar spread the hangings, stepped into the chamber. Jessica glimpsed a press of people in the outer room before the hangings fell. She looked up at Tharthar \endash 
 a small, dark woman in a red-figured robe of black, the total blue of her eyes trained fixedly on Jessica, the nostrils of her tiny nose dilated to reveal the plug scars. 
\par \'93What is it?\'94 Jessica demanded.
\par \'93There is word from the sand,\'94 Tharthar said. \'93Usul meets the maker for his test\'85 it is today. The young men say he cannot fail, he will be a sandrider by nightfall. The young men are banding for a razzia. They will raid 
in the north and meet Usul there. They say they will raise the cry then. They say they will force him to call out Stilgar and assume command of the tribes.\'94
\par Gathering water, planting the dunes, changing their world slowly but surely \endash  these are no longer enough, Jessica thought. The little raids, the certain raids \endash 
 these are no longer enough now that Paul and I have trained them. They feel their power. They want to fight.
\par Tharthar shifted from one foot to the other, cleared her throat.
\par We know the need for cautious waiting, Jessica thought, but there's the core of our frustration. We know also the harm that waiting extended too long can do us. We lose our senses of purpose if the waiting's prolonged.
\par \'93The young men say if Usul does not call out Stilgar, then he must be afraid,\'94 Tharthar said. 
\par She lowered her gaze. 
\par \'93So that's the way of it,\'94 Jessica muttered. And she thought: Well I saw it coming. As did Stilgar.
\par Again, Tharthar cleared her throat. \'93Even my brother, Shoab, says it,\'94 she said. \'93They will leave Usul no choice.\'94 
\par Then it has come, Jessica thought. And Paul will have to handle it himself. The Reverend Mother dare not become involved in the succession.
\par Alia freed her hand from her mother's, said: \'93I will go with Tharthar and listen to the young men. Perhaps there is a way.\'94 
\par Jessica met Tharthar's gaze, but spoke to Alia: \'93Go, then. And report to me as soon as you can.\'94
\par \'93We do not want this thing to happen, Reverend Mother,\'94 Tharthar said.
\par \'93We do not want it,\'94 Jessica agreed. \'93The tribe needs all its strength.\'94 She glanced at Harah. \'93Will you go with them?\'94 
\par Harah answered the unspoken part of the question: \'93Tharthar will allow no harm to befall Alia. She knows we will soon be wives together, she and I, to share the same man. We have talked, Tharthar and I.\'94
 Harah looked up at Tharthar, back to Jessica. \'93We have an understanding.\'94
\par Tharthar held out a hand for Alia, said: \'93We must hurry. The young men are leaving.\'94
\par They pressed through the hangings, the child's hand in the small woman's hand, but the child seemed to be leading.
\par \'93If Paul-Muad'Dib slays Stilgar, this will not serve the tribe,\'94 Harah said. \'93Always before, it has been the way of succession, but times have changed.\'94 
\par \'93Times have changed for you, as well,\'94 Jessica said.
\par \'93You cannot think I doubt the outcome of such a battle,\'94 Harah said. \'93Usul could not but win.\'94 
\par \'93That was my meaning,\'94 Jessica said.
\par \'93And you think my personal feelings enter into my judgment,\'94 Harah said. She shook her head, her water rings tinkling at her neck. \'93How wrong y
ou are. Perhaps you think, as well, that I regret not being the chosen of Usul, that I am jealous of Chani?\'94 
\par \'93You make your own choice as you are able,\'94 Jessica said.
\par \'93I pity Chani,\'94 Harah said.
\par Jessica stiffened. \'93What do you mean?\'94
\par \'93I know what you think of Chani,\'94 Harah said. \'93You think she is not the wife for your son.\'94
\par Jessica settled back, relaxed on her cushions. She shrugged. \'93Perhaps.\'94
\par \'93You could be right,\'94 Harah said. \'93If you are, you may find a surprising ally \endash  Chani herself. She wants whatever is best for Him.\'94
\par Jessica swallowed past a sudden tightening in her throat. \'93Chani's very dear to me,\'94 she said. \'93She could be no \endash \'94
\par \'93Your rugs are very dirty in here,\'94 Harah said. She swept her gaze around the floor, avoiding Jessica's eyes. \'93So many people tramping through here all the time. You really should have them cleaned more often.\'94
\par 
\par 
\par You cannot avoid the interplay of politics within an orthodox religion. This power struggle permeates the training, educating and disciplining of the orthodox commun
ity. Because of this pressure, the leaders of such a community inevitably must face that ultimate internal question: to succumb to complete opportunism as the price of maintaining their rule, or risk sacrificing themselves for the sake of the orthodox eth
ic.
\par -from \'93Muad'Dib: The Religious Issues\'94 by the Princess Irulan
\par 
\par Paul waited on the sand outside the gigantic maker's line of approach. I must not wait like a smuggler \endash  impatient and jittering, he reminded himself. I must be part of the desert.
\par The thing was only minutes away now, filling the morning with the friction-hissing of its passage. Its great teeth within the cavern-circle of its mouth spread like some enormous flower. The spice odor from it dominated the air.
\par Paul's stillsuit rode easily on his body and he was only distantly aware of his nose plugs, the breathing mask. Stilgar's teaching, the painstaking hours on the sand, overshadowed all else.
\par \'93How far outside the maker's radius must you stand in pea sand?\'94 Stilgar had asked him.
\par And he had answered correctly: \'93Half a meter for every meter of the maker's diameter.\'94 
\par \'93Why?\'94
\par \'93To avoid the vortex of its passage and still have time to run in and mount it.\'94
\par \'93You've ridden the little ones bred for the seed and the Water of Life,\'94 Stilgar had said. \'93But what you'll summon for your test is a wild maker, an old man of the desert. You must have proper respect for such a one.\'94
\par Now the thumper's deep drumming blended with the hiss of the approaching worm. Paul breathed deeply, smelling mineral bitterness of 
sand even through his filters. The wild maker, the old man of the desert, loomed, almost on him. Its cresting front segments threw a sandwave that would sweep across his knees.
\par Come up, you lovely monster, he thought. Up. You hear me calling. Come up. Come up.
\par The wave lifted his feet. Surface dust swept across him. He steadied himself, his world dominated by the passage of that sand-clouded curving wall, that segmented cliff, the ring lines sharply defined in it.
\par Paul lifted his hooks, sighted along them, 
leaned in. He felt them bite and pull. He leaped upward, planting his feet against that wall, leaning out against the clinging barbs. This was the true instant of the testing: if he had planted the hooks correctly at the leading edge of a ring segment, op
ening the segment, the worm would not roll down and crush him.
\par The worm slowed. It glided across the thumper, silencing it. Slowly, it began to roll \endash  up, up \endash  bringing those irritant barbs as high as possible, away from the sand that threatened the soft inner lapping of its ring segment.
\par Paul found himself riding upright atop the worm. He felt exultant, like an emperor surveying his world. He suppressed a sudden urge to cavort there, to turn the worm, to show off his mastery of this creature.
\par Suddenly he understood why Stilgar had warned him once about brash young men who danced and played with these monsters, doing handstands on their backs, removing both hooks and replanting them before the worm could spill them.
\par Leaving one hook in place, Paul released th
e other and planted it lower down the side. When the second hook was firm and tested, he brought down the first one, thus worked his way down the side. The maker rolled, and as it rolled, it turned, coming around the sweep of flour sand where the others w
aited.
\par Paul saw them come up, using their hooks to climb, but avoiding the sensitive ring edges until they were on top. They rode at last in a triple line behind him, steadied against their hooks.
\par Stilgar moved up through the ranks, checked the positioning of Paul's hooks, glanced up at Paul's smiling face.
\par \'93You did it, eh?\'94 Stilgar asked, raising his voice above the hiss of their passage. \'93That's what you think? You did it?\'94 He straightened. \'93Now I tell you that was a very sloppy job. We have twelve-year-ol
ds who do better. There was drumsand to your left where you waited. You could not retreat there if the worm turned that way.\'94 
\par The smile slipped from Paul's face. \'93I saw the drumsand.\'94 
\par \'93Then why did you not signal for one of us to take up position secondary to you? It was a thing you could do even in the test.\'94 
\par Paul swallowed, faced into the wind of their passage.
\par \'93You think it bad of me to say this now,\'94 Stilgar said. \'93It is my duty. I think of your worth to the troop. If you had stumbled into that drumsand, the maker would've turned toward you.\'94 
\par In spite of a surge of anger, Paul knew that Stilgar spoke the truth. It took a long minute and the full effort of the training he had received from his mother for Paul to recapture a feeling of calm. \'93I apologize,\'94 he said. \'93
It will not happen again.\'94 
\par \'93In a tight position, always leave yourself a secondary, someone to take the maker if you cannot,\'94 Stilgar said. \'93Remember that we work together. That way, we're certain. We work together, eh?\'94 
\par He slapped Paul's shoulder. 
\par \'93We work together,\'94 Paul agreed.
\par \'93Now,\'94 Stilgar said, and his voice was harsh, \'93show me you know how to handle a maker. Which side are we on?\'94 
\par Paul glanced down at the scaled ring surface on which they stood, noted the character and size of the
 scales, the way they grew larger off to his right, smaller to his left. Every worm, he knew, moved characteristically with one side up more frequently. As it grew older, the characteristic up-side became an almost constant thing. Bottom scales grew large
r, heavier, smoother. Top scales could be told by size alone on a big worm.
\par Shifting his hooks, Paul moved to the left. He motioned flankers down to open segments along the side and keep the worm on a straight course as it rolled. When he had it turned, he motioned two steersmen out of the line and into positions ahead.
\par \'93Ach, haiiiii-yoh!\'94 he shouted in the traditional call. The left-side steersman opened a ring segment there.
\par In a majestic circle, the maker turned to protect its opened segment. Full around it came and when it was headed back to the south, Paul shouted: \'93Geyrat!\'94
\par The steersman released his hook. The maker lined out in a straight course.
\par Stilgar said. \'93Very good, Paul Muad'Dib. With plenty of practice, you may yet become a sandrider.\'94 
\par Paul frowned, thinking: Was I not first up?
\par From behind him there came sudden laughter. The troop began chanting, flinging his name against the sky. 
\par \'93Muad'Dib! Muad'Dib! Muad'Dib! Muad'Dib!\'94 
\par And far to the rear along the worm's surface, Paul heard the beat of the goaders pounding the tail segments. The worm began picking up speed. Their robes flapped in the wind. The abrasive sound of their passage increased.
\par Paul looked back through the troop, found Chani's face among them. He looked at her as he spoke to Stilgar. \'93Then I am a sandrider, Stil?\'94 
\par \'93Hal yawm! You are a sandrider this day.\'94 
\par \'93Then I may choose our destination?\'94 
\par \'93That's the way of it.\'94
\par \'93And I am a Fremen born this day here in the Habbanya erg. I have had no life before this day. I was as a child until this day.\'94 
\par \'93Not quite a child,\'94 Stilgar said. He fastened a corner of his hood where the wind was whipping it.
\par \'93But there was a cork sealing off my world, and that cork has been pulled.\'94 
\par \'93There is no cork.\'94
\par \'93I would go south, Stilgar \endash  twenty thumpers. I would see this land we make, this land that I've only seen through the eyes of others.\'94
\par And I would see my son and my family, he thought. I need time now to consider the future that is a past within my mind. The turmoil comes and if I'm not where I can unravel it, the thing will run wild.
\par Stilgar looked at him with a steady, measuring gaze. Paul kept his attention on Chani, seeing the interest quicken in her face, noting also the excitement his words had kindled in the troop.
\par \'93The men are eager to raid with you in the Harkonnen sinks,\'94 Stilgar said. \'93The sinks are only a thumper away.\'94 
\par \'93The Fedaykin have raided with me,\'94 Paul said. \'93They'll raid with me again until no Harkonnen breathes Arrakeen air.\'94 
\par Stilgar studied him as they rode, and Paul realized the man was seeing this moment through the memory of how he had risen to command of the Tabr sietch and to leadership of the Council of Leaders now that Liet-Kynes was dead.
\par He has heard the reports of unrest among the young Fremen, Paul thought.
\par \'93Do you wish a gathering of the leaders?\'94 Stilgar asked.
\par Eyes blazed among the young men of the troop. They swayed as they rode, and they watched. And Paul saw the look of unrest in Chani's glance, the way she looked from Stilgar, who was her uncle, to Paul-Muad'Dib, who was her mate. 
\par \'93You cannot guess what I want,\'94 Paul said.
\par And he thought: I cannot back down. I must hold control over these people.
\par \'93You are mudir of the sandride this day,\'94 Stilgar said. Cold formality rang in his voice: \'93How do you use this power?\'94 
\par We need time to relax, time for cool reflection, Paul thought. 
\par \'93We shall go south,\'94 Paul said.
\par \'93Even if I say we shall turn back to the north when this day is over?\'94 
\par \'93We shall go south,\'94 Paul repeated.
\par A sense of inevitable dignity enfolded Stilgar as he pulled his robe tightly around him. \'93There will be a Gathering,\'94 he said. \'93I will send the messages.\'94
\par He thinks I will call him out, Paul thought. And he knows he cannot stand against me.
\par Paul faced south, feeling the wind against his exposed cheeks, thinking of the necessities that went into his decisions. 
\par They do not know how it is, he thought.
\par But he knew he could not let any consideration deflect him. He had to remain on the central line of the time storm he could see in the future. There would c
ome an instant when it could be unraveled, but only if he were where he could cut the central knot of it.
\par I will not call him out if it can be helped, he thought. If there's another way to prevent the jihad\'85 
\par \'93We'll camp for the evening meal and prayer at Cave of Birds beneath Habbanya Ridge,\'94 Stilgar said. He steadied himself with one hook against the swaying of the maker, gestured ahead at a low rock barrier rising out of the desert.
\par Paul studied the cliff, the great streaks of rock crossing it like waves. No green, no blossom softened that rigid horizon. Beyond it stretched the way to the southern desert \endash 
 a course of at least ten days and nights, as fast as they could goad the makers. 
\par Twenty thumpers.
\par The way led far beyond the Harkonnen patrols. He knew how it would be. The dreams had shown him. One day, as they went, there \lquote d be a faint change of color on the far horizon \endash 
 such a slight change that he might feel he was imagining it out of his hopes \endash  and there would be the new sietch.
\par \'93Does my decision suit Muad'Dib?\'94
 Stilgar asked. Only the faintest touch of sarcasm tinged his voice, but Fremen ears around them, alert to every tone in a bird's cry or a cielago's piping message, heard the sarcasm and watched Paul to see what he would do.
\par \'93Stilgar heard me swear my loyalty to him when we consecrated the Fedaykin,\'94 Paul said. \'93My death commandos know I spoke with honor. Does Stilgar doubt it?\'94
\par Real pain exposed itself in Paul's voice. Stilgar heard it and lowered his gaze.
\par \'93Usul, the companion of my sietch, him I would never doubt,\'94 Stilgar said. \'93But you are Paul-Muad'Dib, the Atreides Duke, and you are the Lisan al-Gaib, the Voice from the Outer World. These men I don't even know.\'94
\par Paul turned away to watch the Habbanya Ridge climb out of the desert. The 
maker beneath them still felt strong and willing. It could carry them almost twice the distance of any other in Fremen experience. He knew it. There was nothing outside the stories told to children that could match this old man of the desert. It was the s
tuff of a new legend, Paul realized. 
\par A hand gripped his shoulder.
\par Paul looked at it, followed the arm to the face beyond it \endash  the dark eyes of Stilgar exposed between filter mask and stillsuit hood.
\par \'93The one who led Tabr sietch before me,\'94 Stilgar said, \'93he was my friend. We shared dangers. He owed me his life many a time\'85 and I owed him mine.\'94 
\par \'93I am your friend, Stilgar,\'94 Paul said.
\par \'93No man doubts it,\'94 Stilgar said. He removed his hand, shrugged. \'93It's the way.\'94
\par Paul saw that Stilgar was too immersed in t
he Fremen way to consider the possibility of any other. Here a leader took the reins from the dead hands of his predecessor, or slew among the strongest of his tribe if a leader died in the desert. Stilgar had risen to be a naib in that way.
\par \'93We should leave this maker in deep sand,\'94 Paul said. 
\par \'93Yes,\'94 Stilgar agreed. \'93We could walk to the cave from here.\'94 
\par \'93We've ridden him far enough that he'll bury himself and sulk for a day or so,\'94 Paul said.
\par \'93You're the mudir of the sandride,\'94 Stilgar said. \'93Say when we\'85\'94 He broke off, stared at the eastern sky.
\par Paul whirled. The spice-blue overcast on his eyes made the sky appear dark, a richly filtered azure against which a distant rhythmic flashing stood out in sharp contrast. 
\par Ornithopter!
\par \'93One small \lquote thopter,\'94 Stilgar said.
\par \'93Could be a scout,\'94 Paul said. \'93Do you think they've seen us.\'94 
\par \'93At this distance we're just a worm on the surface,\'94 Stilgar said. He motioned with his left hand. \'93Off. Scatter on the sand.\'94 
\par The troop began working down the worm's sides, dropping off, blending with the sand beneath their cloaks. Paul marked where Chani dropped. Presently, only he and Stilgar remained.
\par \'93First up, last off,\'94 Paul said.
\par Stilgar nodded, dropped down the side on his hooks, leaped onto the sand. Paul waited until the maker was safely clear of the scatter area, then released his hooks. This was the tricky moment with a worm not completely exhausted.
\par Freed of its goads and hooks, the big worm began burrowing into the sand. Paul ran lightly back along its broad surface, ju
dged his moment carefully and leaped off. He landed running, lunged against the slipface of a dune the way he had been taught, and hid himself beneath the cascade of sand over his robe. 
\par Now, the waiting\'85 
\par Paul turned, gently, exposed a crack of sky beneath a crease in his robe. He imagined the others back along their path doing the same.
\par He heard the beat of the \lquote thopter's wings before he saw it. There was a whisper of jetpods and it came over his patch of desert, turned in a broad arc toward the ridge. 
\par An unmarked \lquote thopter, Paul noted. 
\par It flew out of sight beyond Habbanya Ridge. 
\par A bird cry sounded over the desert. Another.
\par Paul shook himself free of sand, climbed to the dune top. Other figures stood out in a line trailing away from the ridge. He recognized Chani and Stilgar among them. 
\par Stilgar signaled toward the ridge.
\par They gathered and began the sandwalk, gliding over the surface in a broken rhythm that would disturb no maker. Stilgar paced himself beside Paul along the windpacked crest of a dune. 
\par \'93It was a smuggler craft,\'94 Stilgar said.
\par \'93So it seemed,\'94 Paul said. \'93But this is deep into the desert, for smugglers.\'94 
\par \'93They've their difficulties with patrols, too,\'94 Stilgar said. 
\par \'93If they come this deep, they may go deeper,\'94 Paul said. 
\par \'93True.\'94
\par \'93It wouldn't be well for them to see what they could see if they ventured too deep into the south. Smugglers sell information, too.\'94 
\par \'93They were hunting spice, don't you think?\'94 Stilgar asked.
\par \'93There will be a wing and a crawler waiting somewhere for that one,\'94 Paul said. \'93We've spice. Let's bait a patch of sand and catch us some smugglers. They should be taught that this is our land and our men need practice with the new weapons.\'94 

\par \'93Now, Usul speaks,\'94 Stilgar said. \'93Usul thinks Fremen.\'94 
\par But Usul must give way to decisions that match a terrible purpose, Paul thought.
\par And the storm was gathering.
\par 
\par 
\par When law and duty are one, united by religion, you never become fully conscious, fully aware of yourself. You are always a little less than an individual.
\par -from \'93Muad'Dib: The Ninety-Nine Wonders of the Universe\'94 by Princess Irulan
\par 
\par The smuggler's spice factory with its parent carrier and ring of drone ornithopters came over a lifting of dunes like a swarm of insects following its queen. Ahead of the swarm lay one of the lo
w rock ridges that lifted from the desert floor like small imitations of the Shield Wall. The dry beaches of the ridge were swept clean by a recent storm.
\par In the con-bubble of the factory, Gurney Halleck leaned forward, adjusted the oil lenses of his binoc
ulars and examined the landscape. Beyond the ridge, he could see a dark patch that might be a spiceblow, and he gave the signal to a hovering ornithopter that sent it to investigate.
\par The \lquote thopter waggled its wings to indicate it had the signal. It broke away from the swarm, sped down toward the darkened sand, circled the area with its detectors dangling close to the surface.
\par Almost immediately, it went through the wing-tucked dip and circle that told the waiting factory that spice had been found.
\par Gurney sheathed his binoculars, knowing the others had seen the signal. He liked this spot. The ridge offered some shielding and protection. This was deep in the desert, an unlikely place for an ambush\'85 still\'85
 Gurney signaled for a crew to hover over the ridge, to scan it, sent reserves to take up station in pattern around the area \endash  not too high because then they could be seen from afar by Harkonnen detectors.
\par He doubted, though, that Harkonnen patrols would be this far south. This was still Fremen country.
\par Gurney c
hecked his weapons, damning the fate that made shields useless out here. Anything that summoned a worm had to be avoided at all costs. He rubbed the inkvine scar along his jaw, studying the scene, decided it would be safest to lead a ground party through 
the ridge. Inspection on foot was still the most certain. You couldn't be too careful when Fremen and Harkonnen were at each other's throats.
\par It was Fremen that worried him here. They didn't mind trading for all the spice you could afford, but they were devils on the warpath if you stepped foot where they forbade you to go. And they were so devilishly cunning of late.
\par It annoyed Gurney, the cunning and adroitness in battle of these natives. They displayed a sophistication in warfare as good as anything he ha
d ever encountered, and he had been trained by the best fighters in the universe then seasoned in battles where only the superior few survived.
\par Again Gurney scanned the landscape, wondering why he felt uneasy. Perhaps it was the worm they had seen\'85 but that was on the other side of the ridge.
\par A head popped up into the con-bubble beside Gurney \endash  the factory commander, a one-eyed old pirate with full beard, the blue eyes and milky teeth of a spice diet.
\par \'93Looks like a rich patch, sir,\'94 the factory commander said. \'93Shall I take \lquote er in?\'94
\par \'93Come down at the edge of that ridge,\'94 Gurney ordered. \'93Let me disembark with my men. You can tractor out to the spice from there. We'll have a look at that rock.\'94 
\par \'93Aye.\'94
\par \'93In case of trouble,\'94 Gurney said, \'93save the factory. We'll lift in the \lquote thopters.\'94
\par The factory commander saluted. \'93Aye, sir.\'94 He popped back down through the hatch.
\par Again Gurney scanned the horizon. He had to respect the possibility that there were Fremen here and he was trespassing. Fremen worried him, their t
oughness and unpredictability. Many things about this business worried him, but the rewards were great. The fact that he couldn't send spotters high overhead worried him, too. The necessity of radio silence added to his uneasiness.
\par The factory crawler turned, began to descend. Gently it glided down to the dry beach at the foot of the ridge. Treads touched sand.
\par Gurney opened the bubble dome, released his safety straps. The instant the factory stopped, he was out, slamming the bubble closed behind him, scram
bling out over the tread guards to swing down to the sand beyond the emergency netting. The five men of his personal guard were out with him, emerging from the nose hatch. Others released the factory's carrier wing. It detached, lifted away to fly in a pa
rking circle low overhead.
\par Immediately the big factory crawler lurched off, swinging away from the ridge toward the dark patch of spice out on the sand.
\par A \lquote thopter swooped down nearby, skidded to a stop. Another followed and another. They disgorged Gurney's platoon and lifted to hoverflight.
\par Gurney tested his muscles in his stillsuit, stretching. He left the filter mask off his face, losing moisture for the sake of a greater need \endash  the carrying power of his voice if he had to shout commands. He began climbin
g up into the rocks, checking the terrain \endash  pebbles and pea sand underfoot, the smell of spice.
\par Good site for an emergency base, he thought. Might be sensible to bury a few supplies here.
\par He glanced back, watching his men spread out as they followed him. G
ood men, even the new ones he hadn't had time to test. Good men. Didn't have to be told every time what to do. Not a shield glimmer showed on any of them. No cowards in this bunch, carrying shields into the desert where a worm could sense the field and co
me to rob them of the spice they found.
\par From this slight elevation in the rocks, Gurney could see the spice patch about half a kilometer away and the crawler just reaching the near edge. He glanced up at the coverflight, noting the altitude \endash  not too high. 
He nodded to himself, turned to resume his climb up the ridge.
\par In that instant, the ridge erupted.
\par Twelve roaring paths of flame streaked upward to the hovering \lquote thopters and carrier wing. There came a blasting of metal from the factory crawler, and the rocks around Gurney were full of hooded fighting men.
\par Gurney had time to think: By the horns of the Great Mother! Rockets! They dare to use rockets!
\par Then he was face to face with a hooded figure who crouched low, crysknife at the ready. Two more men stood wa
iting on the rocks above to left and right. Only the eyes of the fighting man ahead of him were visible to Gurney between hood and veil of a sand-colored burnoose, but the crouch and readiness warned him that here was a trained fighting man. The eyes were
 the blue-in-blue of the deep-desert Fremen.
\par Gurney moved one hand toward his own knife, kept his eyes fixed on the other's knife. If they dared use rockets, they'd have other projectile weapons. This moment argued extreme caution. He could tell by sound al
one that at least part of his skycover had been knocked out. There were gruntings, too, the noise of several struggles behind him.
\par The eyes of the fighting man ahead of Gurney followed the motion of hand toward knife, came back to glare into Gurney's eyes.
\par \'93Leave the knife in its sheath, Gurney Halleck,\'94 the man said.
\par Gurney hesitated. That voice sounded oddly familiar even through a stillsuit filter.
\par \'93You know my name?\'94 he said.
\par \'93You've no need of a knife with me, Gurney,\'94 the man said. He straightened, slipped his crysknife into its sheath back beneath his robe. \'93Tell your men to stop their useless resistance.\'94 
\par The man threw his hood back, swung the filter aside.
\par The shock of what he saw froze Gurney's muscles. He thought at first he was looking at a ghost image of Duke Leto Atreides. Full recognition came slowly.
\par \'93Paul,\'94 he whispered. Then louder: \'93Is it truly Paul?\'94 
\par \'93Don't you trust your own eyes?\'94 Paul asked.
\par \'93They said you were dead,\'94 Gurney rasped. He took a half-step forward.
\par \'93Tell your men to submit,\'94 Paul commanded. He waved toward the lower reaches of the ridge.
\par Gurney turned, reluctant to take his eyes off Paul. He saw only a few knots of struggle. Hooded desert men seemed to be everywhere around. The factory crawler lay silent with Fremen standing atop it. There were no aircraft overhead.
\par \'93Stop the fighting,\'94 Gurney bellowed. He took a deep breath, cupped his hands for a megaphone. \'93This is Gurney Halleck! Stop the fight!\'94
\par Slowly, warily, the struggling figures separated. Eyes turned toward him, questioning.
\par \'93These are friends,\'94 Gurney called.
\par \'93Fine friends!\'94 someone shouted back. \'93Half our people murdered.\'94
\par \'93It's a mistake,\'94 Gurney said. \'93Don't add to it.\'94 
\par He turned back to Paul, stared into the youth's blue-blue Fremen eyes.
\par A smile touched Paul's mouth, but there was a hardness in the expression that reminded Gurney of the Old Duke, Paul's grandfather. Gurney saw then the sinewy harshness in Paul that had never before been seen in an Atreides \endash 
 a leathery look to the skin, a squint to the eyes and calculation in the glance that seemed to weigh everything in sight.
\par \'93They said you were dead,\'94 Gurney repeated.
\par \'93And it seemed the best protection to let them think so,\'94 Paul said.
\par Gurney realized that was all the apology he'd ever get for having been abandoned to his own resources, left to believe his young Duke\'85
 his friend, was dead. He wondered then if there were anything left here of the boy he had known and trained in the ways of fighting men.
\par Paul took a step closer to Gurney, found that his eyes were smarting. \'93Gurney\'85 \'94
\par It seemed to happen of itself, and they were embracing, pounding each other on the back, feeling the reassurance of solid flesh. 
\par \'93You young pup! You young pup!\'94 Gurney kept saying. 
\par And Paul: \'93Gurney, man! Gurney, man!\'94
\par Presently, they stepped apart, looked at each other. Gurney took a deep breath. \'93So you're why the Fremen have grown so wise in battle tactics. I might've known. They keep doing things I could've planned myself. If I'd only known\'85 \'94
 He shook his head. \'93If you'd only got word to me, lad. Nothing would've stopped me. I'd have come arunning and\'85 \'94 
\par A look in Paul's eyes stopped him\'85 the hard, weighing stare.
\par Gurney sighed. \'93Sure, and there'd have been those who wondered why Gurney Halleck went arunning, and some would've done more than question. They'd have gone hunting for answers.\'94 
\par Paul nodded, glanced to the waiting Fremen around them \endash  the looks of curious appraisal on the faces of the Fedaykin. He turned from the death commandos back to Gurney. Finding his former 
swordmaster filled him with elation. He saw it as a good omen, a sign that he was on the course of the future where all was well. 
\par With Gurney at my side\'85
\par Paul glanced down the ridge past the Fedaykin, studied the smuggler crew who had come with Halleck.
\par \'93How do your men stand, Gurney?\'94 he asked.
\par \'93They're smugglers all,\'94 Gurney said. \'93They stand where the profit is.\'94
\par \'93Little enough profit in our venture,\'94 Paul said, and he noted the subtle finger signal flashed to him by Gurney's right hand \endash  the old hand code out of their past. There were men to fear and distrust in the smuggler crew.
\par Paul pulled at his lip to indicate he understood, looked up at the men standing guard above them on the rocks. He saw Stilgar there. Memory of the unsolved problem with Stilgar cooled some of Paul's elation.
\par \'93Stilgar,\'94 he said, \'93this is Gurney Halleck of whom you've heard me speak. My father's master-of-arms, one of the swordmasters who instructed me, an old friend. He can be trusted in any venture.\'94 
\par \'93I hear,\'94 Stilgar said. \'93You are his Duke.\'94
\par Paul stared at the dark visage above him, wondering at the reasons which had impelled Stilgar to say just that. His Duke. There had been a strange subtle intonation in Stilgar's voice, as though he would rather have said something else. A
nd that wasn't like Stilgar, who was a leader of Fremen, a man who spoke his mind.
\par My Duke! Gurney thought. He looked anew at Paul. Yes, with Leto dead, the title fell on Paul's shoulders.
\par The pattern of the Fremen war on Arrakis began to take on new shape
 in Gurney's mind. My Duke! A place that had been dead within him began coming alive. Only part of his awareness focused on Paul's ordering the smuggler crew disarmed until they could be questioned.
\par Gurney's mind returned to the command when he heard some of his men protesting. He shook his head, whirled. \'93Are you men deaf?\'94 he barked. \'93This is the rightful Duke of Arrakis. Do as he commands.\'94 
\par Grumbling, the smugglers submitted.
\par Paul moved up beside Gurney, spoke in a low voice. \'93I'd not have expected you to walk into this trap, Gurney.\'94 
\par \'93I'm properly chastened,\'94 Gurney said. \'93I'll wager yon patch of spice is little more than a sand grain's thickness, a bait to lure us.\'94
\par \'93That's a wager you'd win,\'94 Paul said. He looked down at the men being disarmed. \'93Are there any more of my father's men among your crew?\'94
\par \'93None. We're spread thin. There're a few among the free traders. Most have spent their profits to leave this place.\'94
\par \'93But you stayed.\'94 
\par \'93I stayed.\'94 
\par \'93Because Rabban is here,\'94 Paul said.
\par \'93I thought I had nothing left but revenge,\'94 Gurney said.
\par An oddly chopped cry sounded from the ridgetop. Gurney looked up to see a Fremen waving his kerchief.
\par \'93A maker comes,\'94 Paul said. He moved out to a point of rock with Gurney following, looked off to the southwest. The
 burrow mound of a worm could be seen in the middle distance, a dust-crowned track that cut directly through the dunes on a course toward the ridge.
\par \'93He's big enough,\'94 Paul said.
\par A clattering sound lifted from the factory crawler below them. It turned on its treads like a giant insect, lumbered toward the rocks. 
\par \'93Too bad we couldn't have saved the carryall,\'94 Paul said.
\par Gurney glanced at him, looked back to the patches of smoke and debris out on the desert where carryall and ornithopters had been brought down by Fremen rockets. He felt a sudden pang for the men lost there \endash  his men, and he said: \'93
Your father would've been more concerned for the men he couldn't save.\'94
\par Paul shot a hard stare at him, lowered his gaze. Presently, he said: \'93They were your friends, Gurney. I understand. To us, though, they were trespassers who might see things they shouldn't see. You must understand that.\'94
\par \'93I understand it well enough,\'94 Gurney said. \'93Now, I'm curious to see what I shouldn't.\'94
\par Paul looked up to see the old and well-remembered wolfish grin on Halleck's face, the ripple of the inkvine scar along the man's jaw.
\par Gurney nodded toward the desert below them. Fremen were going about their business all over the landscape. It struck him that none of them appeared worried by the approach of the worm.
\par A thumping sounded from the open dunes beyond the baited patch of spice \endash  a deep drumming that seemed to be heard through their feet. Gurney saw Fremen spread out across the sand there in the path of the worm.
\par The worm came on like some great sandfish, cresting the surface, its rings rippling and twisting. In a moment, from his vantage point above the desert, Gurney saw the taking of a worm \endash 
 the daring leap of the first hookman, the turning of the creature, the way an entire band of men went up the scaly, glistening curve of the worm's side. 
\par \'93There's one of the things you shouldn't have seen,\'94 Paul said. 
\par \'93There's been stories and rumors,\'94 Gurney said. \'93But it's not a thing easy to believe without seeing it.\'94 He shook his head. \'93The creature all men on Arrakis fear, you treat it like a riding animal.\'94 
\par \'93You heard my father speak of desert power,\'94 Paul said. \'93There it is. The surface of this planet is ours. No storm nor creature nor condition can stop us.\'94
\par Us, Gurney thought. He means
 the Fremen. He speaks of himself as one of them. Again, Gurney looked at the spice blue in Paul's eyes. His own eyes, he knew, had a touch of the color, but smugglers could get offworld foods and there was a subtle caste implication in the tone of the ey
es among them. They spoke of \'93the touch of the spicebrush\'94 to mean a man had gone too native. And there was always a hint of distrust in the idea.
\par \'93There was a time when we did not ride the maker in the light of day in these latitudes,\'94 Paul said. \'93But Rabban has little enough air cover left that he can waste it looking for a few specks in the sand.\'94 He looked at Gurney. \'93
Your aircraft were a shock to us here.\'94 
\par To us\'85 to us\'85 
\par Gurney shook his head to drive out such thoughts. \'93We weren't the shock to you that you were to us,\'94 he said.
\par \'93What's the talk of Rabban in the sinks and villages?\'94 Paul asked.
\par \'93They say they've fortified the graben villages to the point where you cannot harm them. They say they need only sit inside their defenses while you wear yourselves out in futile attack.\'94 
\par \'93In a word,\'94 Paul said, \'93they're immobilized.\'94 
\par \'93While you can go where you will,\'94 Gurney said.
\par \'93It's a tactic I learned from you,\'94 Paul said. \'93They've lost the initiative, which means they've lost the war.\'94 
\par Gurney smiled, a slow, knowing expression.
\par \'93Our enemy is exactly where I want him to be,\'94 Paul said. He glanced at Gurney. \'93Well, Gurney, do you enlist with me for the finish of this campaign?\'94
\par \'93Enlist?\'94 Gurney stared at him. \'93My Lord, I've never left your service. You're the only one left me\'85 to think you dead. And I, being cast adrift, made what shrift I could, waiting for the moment I might sell my life for what it's worth 
\endash  the death of Rabban.\'94 
\par An embarrassed silence settled over Paul.
\par A woman came climbing up the rocks toward them, her eyes between stillsuit hood and facemask flicking between Paul and his companion. She stopped in front of Paul. Gurney noted the possessive air about her, the way she stood close to Paul.
\par \'93Chani,\'94 Paul said, \'93this is Gurney Halleck. You've heard me speak of him.\'94
\par She looked at Halleck, back to Paul. \'93I have heard.\'94 
\par \'93Where did the men go on the maker?\'94 Paul asked. 
\par \'93They but diverted it to give us time to save the equipment.\'94 
\par \'93Well then\'85\'94 Paul broke off, sniffed the air. 
\par \'93There's wind coming,\'94 Chani said.
\par A voice called out from the ridgetop above them: \'93Ho, there \endash  the wind!\'94
\par Gurney saw a quickening of motion among the Fremen now \endash  a rushing about and sense of hurry. A thing the worm had not ignited was brought about by fear of the wind.
 The factory crawler lumbered up onto the dry beach below them and a way was opened for it among the rocks\'85 and the rocks closed behind it so neatly that the passage escaped his eyes.
\par \'93Have you many such hiding places?\'94 Gurney asked.
\par \'93Many times many,\'94 Paul said. He looked at Chani. \'93Find Korba. Tell him that Gurney has warned me there are men among this smuggler crew who're not to be trusted.\'94
\par She looked once at Gurney, back to Paul, nodded, and was off down the rocks, leaping with a gazelle-like agility. 
\par \'93She is your woman,\'94 Gurney said.
\par \'93The mother of my firstborn,\'94 Paul said. \'93There's another Leto among the Atreides.\'94 
\par Gurney accepted this with only a widening of the eyes.
\par Paul watched the action around them with a critical eye. A curry color dominated the southern sky now and there came fitful bursts and gusts of wind that whipped dust around their heads.
\par \'93Seal your suit,\'94 Paul said. And he fastened the mask and hood about his face.
\par Gurney obeyed, thankful for the filters.
\par Paul spoke, his voice muffled by the filter: \'93Which of your crew don't you trust, Gurney?\'94
\par \'93There're some new recruits,\'94 Gurney said. \'93Offworlders\'85 \'94 He hesitated, wondering at himself suddenly. Offworlders. The word had come so easily to his tongue. 
\par \'93Yes?\'94 Paul said.
\par \'93They're not like the usual fortune-hunting lot we get,\'94 Gurney said. \'93They're tougher.\'94 
\par \'93Harkonnen spies?\'94 Paul asked.
\par \'93I think m'Lord, that they report to no Harkonnen. I suspect they're men of the Imperial service. They have a hint of Salusa Secundus about them.\'94 
\par Paul shot a sharp glance at him. \'93Sardaukar?\'94 
\par Gurney shrugged. \'93They could be, but it's well masked.\'94
\par Paul nodded, thinking how easily Gurney had fallen back into the pattern of Atreides retainer\'85 but with subtle reservations\'85 differences. Arrakis had changed him, too.
\par Two hooded Fremen emerged from the broken rock below them, began climbing upward. One of them carried a large black bundle over one shoulder.
\par \'93Where are my crew now?\'94 Gurney asked.
\par \'93Secure in the rocks below us,\'94 Paul said. \'93We've a cave here \endash  Cave of Birds. We'll decide what to do with them after the storm.\'94 
\par A voice called from above them: \'93Muad'Dib!\'94 
\par Paul turned at the call, saw a Fremen guard motioning them down to the cave. Paul signaled he had heard.
\par Gurney studying him with a new expression. \'93You're Muad'Dib?\'94 he asked. \'93You're the will-o'-the-sand?\'94 
\par \'93It's my Fremen name,\'94 Paul said.
\par Gurney turned away, feeling an oppressive sense of foreboding. Half his own crew dead on the sand, the others captive. He did not care about the new recrui
ts, the suspicious ones, but among the others were good men, friends, people for whom he felt responsible. \'93We'll decide what to do with them after the storm.\'94
 That's what Paul had said, Muad'Dib had said. And Gurney recalled the stories told of Muad'Dib, the Lisan al-Gaib \endash 
 how he had taken the skin of a Harkonnen officer to make his drumheads, how he was surrounded by death commandos, Fedaykin who leaped into battle with their death chants on their lips. 
\par Him.
\par The two Fremen climbing up the rocks leaped lightly to a shelf in front of Paul. The dark-faced one said: \'93All secure, Muad'Dib. We best get below now.\'94 
\par \'93Right.\'94
\par Gurney noted the tone of the man's voice \endash  half command and half request. This was the man called Stilgar, another figure of the new Fremen legends.
\par Paul looked at the bundle the other man carried, said: \'93Korba, what's in the bundle?\'94
\par Stilgar answered: \'93 \lquote Twas in the crawler. It had the initial of your friend here and it contains a baliset. Many times have I heard you speak of the prowess of Gurney Halleck on the baliset.\'94 
\par Gurney studied the speaker, seeing the edge of black beard above the stillsuit mask, the hawk stare, the chiseled nose.
\par \'93You've a companion who thinks, m'Lord,\'94 Gurney said. \'93Thank you, Stilgar.\'94
\par Stilgar signaled for his companion to pass the bundle to Gurney, said: \'93Thank your Lord Duke. His countenance earns your admittance here.\'94
\par Gurney accepted the bundle, puzzled by the hard undertones in this conversation. There was an air of challenge about the man, and Gurney wonder
ed if it could be a feeling of jealousy in the Fremen. Here was someone called Gurney Halleck who'd known Paul even in the times before Arrakis, a man who shared a camaraderie that Stilgar could never invade.
\par \'93You are two I'd have be friends,\'94 Paul said.
\par \'93Stilgar, the Fremen, is a name of renown,\'94 Gurney said. \'93Any killer of Harkonnens I'd feel honored to count among my friends.\'94
\par \'93Will you touch hands with my friend Gurney Halleck, Stilgar?\'94 Paul asked.
\par Slowly, Stilgar extended his hand, gripped the heavy calluses of Gurney's swordhand. \'93There're few who haven't heard the name of Gurney Halleck,\'94 he said, and released his grip. He turned to Paul. \'93The storm comes rushing.\'94 
\par \'93At once,\'94 Paul said.
\par Stilgar turned away, led them down through the rocks, a twistin
g and turning path into a shadowed cleft that admitted them to the low entrance of a cave. Men hurried to fasten a doorseal behind them. Glowglobes showed a broad, dome-ceilinged space with a raised ledge on one side and a passage leading off from it.

\par Paul leaped to the ledge with Gurney right behind him, led the way into the passage. The others headed for another passage opposite the entrance. Paul led the way through an anteroom and into a chamber with dark, wine-colored hangings on its walls.
\par \'93We can have some privacy here for a while,\'94 Paul said. \'93The others will respect my \endash \'94
\par An alarm cymbal clanged from the outer chamber, was followed by shouting and clashing of weapons. Paul whirled, ran back through the anteroom and out onto the atrium lip above the outer chamber. Gurney was right behind, weapon drawn.
\par Beneath them on the floor of the cave swirled a melee of struggling figures. Paul stood an instant assessing the scene, separating the Fremen robes and bourkas from the costumes of those they opposed. S
enses that his mother had trained to detect the most subtle clues picked out a significant fact \endash  the Fremen fought against men wearing smuggler robes, but the smugglers were crouched in trios, backed into triangles where pressed.
\par That habit of close fighting was a trademark of the Imperial Sardaukar.
\par A Fedaykin in the crowd saw Paul, and his battlecry was lifted to echo in the chamber: \'93Muad'Dib! Muad'Dib! Muad'Dib!\'94 
\par Another eye had also picked Paul out. A black knife came hurtling toward him. Paul dodged, heard the knife clatter against stone behind him, glanced to see Gurney retrieve it. 
\par The triangular knots were being pressed back now. 
\par Gurney held the knife up in front of Paul's eyes, pointed to the hairline yellow coil of Imperial color, the golden lion crest, multifaceted eyes at the pommel. 
\par Sardaukar for certain.
\par Paul stepped out to the lip of the ledge. Only three of the Sardaukar remained. Bloody rag mounds of Sardaukar and Fremen lay in a twisted pattern across the chamber.
\par \'93Hold!\'94 Paul shouted. \'93The Duke Paul Atreides commands you to hold!\'94 
\par The fighting wavered, hesitated.
\par \'93You Sardaukar!\'94 Paul called to the remaining group. \'93By whose orders do you threaten a ruling Duke?\'94 And, quickly, as his men started to press in around the Sardaukar: \'93Hold, I say!\'94 
\par One of the cornered trio straightened. \'93Who says we're Sardaukar?\'94 he demanded.
\par Paul took the knife from Gurney, held it aloft. \'93This says you're Sardaukar.\'94 
\par \'93Then who says you're a ruling Duke?\'94 the man demanded.
\par Paul gestured to the Fedaykin. \'93These men say I'm a ruling Duke. Your own emperor bestowed Arrakis on House Atreides. I am House Atreides.\'94 
\par The Sardaukar stood silent, fidgeting.
\par Paul studied the man \endash  tall, flat-featured, with a pale scar across half his left cheek. Anger and confusion were betrayed in his manner, but still there was that pride about him without which a Sardaukar appeared undressed \endash 
 and with which he could appear fully clothed though naked.
\par Paul glanced to one of his Fedaykin lieutenants, said: \'93Korba, how came they to have weapons?\'94
\par \'93They held back knives concealed in cunning pockets within their stillsuits,\'94 the lieutenant said.
\par Paul surveyed the dead and wounded across the chamber, brought his attention back to the lieutenant. There was no need for words. The lieutenant lowered his eyes.
\par \'93Where is Chani?\'94 Paul asked and waited, breath held, for the answer.
\par \'93Stilgar spirited her aside.\'94 He nodded toward the other passage, glanced at the dead and wounded. \'93I hold myself responsible for this mistake, Muad'Dib.\'94
\par \'93How many of these Sardaukar were there, Gurney?\'94 Paul asked.
\par \'93Ten.\'94
\par Paul leaped lightly to the floor of the chamber, strode across to stand within striking distance of the Sardaukar spokesman.
\par A tense air came over the Fedaykin. They did not like him thus exposed to danger. This was the thing they were pledged to prevent because the Fremen wished to preserve the wisdom of Muad'Dib.
\par Without turning, Paul spoke to his lieutenant: \'93How many are our casualties?\'94 
\par \'93Four wounded, two dead, Muad'Dib.\'94
\par Paul saw motion beyond the Sardaukar, Chani and Stilgar were standing in the other passage. He returned his attention to the Sardaukar, staring into the offworld whites of the spokesman's eyes. \'93You, what is your name?\'94 Paul demanded. 
\par The man stiffened, glanced left and right.
\par \'93Don't try it,\'94 Paul said. \'93It's obvious to me that you were ordered to seek out and destroy Muad'Dib. I'll warrant you were the ones suggested seeking spice in the deep desert.\'94 
\par A gasp from Gurney behind him brought a thin smile to Paul's lips.
\par Blood suffused the Sardaukar's face.
\par \'93What you see before you is more than Muad'Dib,\'94 Paul said. \'93Seven of you are dead for two of us. Three for one. Pretty good against Sardaukar, eh?\'94
\par The man came up on his toes, sank back as the Fedaykin pressed forward.
\par \'93I asked your name,\'94 Paul said, and he called up the subtleties of Voice: \'93Tell me your name!\'94
\par \'93Captain Aramsham, Imperial Sardaukar!\'94 the man snapped. His jaw dropped. He stared at Paul in confusion. The manner about him that had dismissed this cavern as a barbarian warren melted away.
\par \'93Well, Captain Aramsham,\'94 Paul said, \'93the Harkonnens would pay dearly to learn what you now know. And the Emperor \endash  what he wouldn't give to learn an Atreides still lives despite his treachery.\'94 
\par The captain glanced left and right at the two men remaining to him. Paul could almost see the thoughts turning over in the man's head. Sardaukar did not submit, but the Emperor had to learn of this threat.
\par Still using the Voice, Paul said: \'93Submit, Captain.\'94
\par The man at the captain's left leaped without warning toward Paul, met the flashing impact of his own captain's knife in his chest. The attacker hit the floor in a sodden heap with the knife still in him.
\par The captain faced his sole remaining companion. \'93I decide what best serves His Majesty,\'94 he said. \'93Understood?\'94 
\par The other Sardaukar's shoulders slumped. 
\par \'93Drop your weapon,\'94 the captain said. 
\par The Sardaukar obeyed.
\par The captain returned his attention to Paul. \'93I have killed a friend for you,\'94 he said. \'93Let us always remember that.\'94 
\par \'93You're my prisoners,\'94 Paul said. \'93You submitted to me. Whether you live or die is of no importance.\'94 He motioned to his guard to take the two Sardaukar, signaled the lieutenant who had searched the prisoners.
\par The guard moved in, hustled the Sardaukar away. 
\par Paul bent toward his lieutenant.
\par \'93Muad'Dib,\'94 the man said. \'93I failed you in\'85 \'94 
\par \'93The failure was mine, Korba,\'94 Paul said. \'93I should've warned you what to seek. In the future, when searching Sardaukar, remember this. Remember, too, that each has a false 
toenail or two that can be combined with other items secreted about their bodies to make an effective transmitter. They'll have more than one false tooth. They carry coils of shigawire in their hair \endash 
 so fine you can barely detect it, yet strong enough to garrote a man and cut off his head in the process. With Sardaukar, you must scan them, scope them \endash  both reflex and hard ray \endash 
 cut off every scrap of body hair. And when you're through, be certain you haven't discovered everything.\'94 
\par He looked up at Gurney, who had moved close to listen. 
\par \'93Then we best kill them,\'94 the lieutenant said.
\par Paul shook his head, still looking at Gurney. \'93No. I want them to escape.\'94 Gurney stared at him. 
\par \'93Sire\'85 \'94 he breathed. 
\par \'93Yes?\'94
\par \'93Your man here is right. Kill those prisoners at once. Destroy all evidence of them. You've shamed Imperial Sardaukar! When the Emperor learns that he'll not rest until he has you over a slow fire.\'94
\par \'93The Emperor's not likely to have that power over me,\'94 Paul said. He spoke slowly, coldly. Something had happened inside him while he faced the Sardaukar. A sum of decisions had accumulated in his awareness. \'93Gurney,\'94 he said, \'93
are there many Guildsmen around Rabban?\'94
\par Gurney straightened, eyes narrowed. \'93Your question makes no\'85 \'94 
\par \'93Are there?\'94 Paul barked.
\par \'93Arrakis is crawling with Guild agents. They're buying spice as though it were the most precious thing in the universe. Why else do you think we ventured this far into\'85 \'94
\par \'93It is the most precious thing in the universe,\'94 Paul said. \'93To them.\'94
\par He looked toward Stilgar and Chani who were now crossing the chamber toward him. \'93And we control it, Gurney.\'94 
\par \'93The Harkonnens control it!\'94 Gurney protested.
\par \'93The people who can destroy a thing, they control it,\'94 Paul said. He waved a hand to silence further remarks from Gurney, nodded to Stilgar who stopped in front of Paul, Chani beside him.
\par Paul took the Sardaukar knife in his left hand, presented it to Stilgar. \'93You live for the good of the tribe,\'94 Paul said. \'93Could you draw my life's blood with that knife?\'94 
\par \'93For the good of the tribe,\'94 Stilgar growled. 
\par \'93Then use that knife,\'94 Paul said.
\par \'93Are you calling me out?\'94 Stilgar demanded.
\par \'93If I do,\'94 Paul said, \'93I shall stand there without weapon and let you slay me.\'94 
\par Stilgar drew in a quick, sharp breath.
\par Chani said, \'93Usul!\'94 then glanced at Gurney, back to Paul.
\par While Stilgar was still weighing his words, Paul said: \'93You are Stilgar, a fighting man. When the Sardaukar began fighting here, you were not in the front of battle. Your first thought was to protect Chani.\'94
\par \'93She's my niece,\'94 Stilgar said. \'93If there'd been any doubt of your Fedaykin handling those scum\'85 \'94 
\par \'93Why was your first thought of Chani?\'94 Paul demanded. 
\par \'93It wasn't!\'94 
\par \'93Oh?\'94 
\par \'93It was of you,\'94 Stilgar admitted.
\par \'93Do you think you could lift your hand against me?\'94 Paul asked. Stilgar began to tremble. \'93It's the way,\'94 he muttered.
\par \'93It's the way to kill offworld strangers found in the desert and take their water as a gift from Shai-hulud,\'94 Paul said. \'93Yet you permitted two such to live one night, my mother and myself.\'94 
\par As Stilgar remained silent, trembling, staring at him, Paul said: \'93Ways change, Stil. You have changed them yourself.\'94 
\par Stilgar looked down at the yellow emblem on the knife he held. 
\par \'93When I am Duke in Arrakeen with Chani by my side, do you think I'll have time to concern myself with every detail of governing Tabr sietch?\'94 Paul asked. \'93Do you concern yourself with the internal problems of every family?\'94 
\par Stilgar continued staring at the knife.
\par \'93Do you think I wish to cut off my right arm?\'94 Paul demanded. 
\par Slowly, Stilgar looked up at him.
\par \'93You!\'94 Paul said. \'93Do you think I wish to deprive myself or the tribe of your wisdom and strength?\'94
\par In a low voice, Stilgar said: \'93The young man of my tribe whose name is known to me, this young man I could kill on the challenge floor, Shai-hulud willing. The Lisan al-Gaib, him I could not harm. You knew this when you handed me this knife.\'94 

\par \'93I knew it,\'94 Paul agreed.
\par Stilgar opened his hand. The knife clattered against the stone of the floor. \'93Ways change,\'94 he said.
\par \'93Chani,\'94 Paul said, \'93go to my mother, send her here that her counsel will be available in \endash \'94 
\par \'93But you said we would go to the south!\'94 she protested.
\par \'93I was wrong,\'94 he said. \'93The Harkonnens are not there. The war is not there.\'94
\par She took a deep breath, accepting this as a desert woman accepted all necessities in the midst of a life involved with death.
\par \'93You will give my mother a message for her ears alone,\'94 Paul said. \'93Tell her that Stilgar acknowledges me Duke of Arrakis, but a way must be found to make the young men accept this without combat.\'94 
\par Chani glanced at Stilgar.
\par \'93Do as he says,\'94 Stilgar growled. \'93We both know he could overcome me\'85 and I could not raise my hand against him\'85 for the good of the tribe.\'94 
\par \'93I shall return with your mother,\'94 Chani said.
\par \'93Send her,\'94 Paul said. \'93Stilgar's instinct was right. I am stronger when you are safe. You will remain in the sietch.\'94 
\par She started to protest, swallowed it.
\par \'93Sihaya,\'94 Paul said, using his intimate name for her. He whirled away to the right, met Gurney's glaring eyes.
\par The interchange between Paul and the older Fremen had passed as though in a cloud around Gurney since Paul's reference to his mother.
\par \'93Your mother,\'94 Gurney said.
\par \'93Idaho saved us the night of the raid,\'94 Paul said, distracted by the parting with Chani. \'93Right now we've \endash \'94 
\par \'93What of Duncan Idaho, m'Lord?\'94 Gurney asked.
\par \'93He's dead \endash  buying us a bit of time to escape.\'94 
\par The she-witch alive! Gurney thought. The one I swore vengeance against, alive! And it's obvious Duke Paul doesn't know what manner of creature gave him birth. The evil one! Betrayed his own father to the Harkonnens!
\par Paul pressed past him, jumped up to the ledge. He glanced back, noted that the wounded and dead had been removed, and he thought bitterly that here was another chapter in the le
gend of Paul Muad'Dib. I didn't even draw my knife, but it'll be said of this day that I slew twenty Sardaukar by my own hand.
\par Gurney followed with Stilgar, stepping on ground that he did not even feel. The cavern with its yellow light of glowglobes was fo
rced out of his thoughts by rage. The she-witch alive while those she betrayed are bones in lonesome graves. I must contrive it that Paul learns the truth about her before I slay her.
\par 
\par 
\par How often it is that the angry man rages denial of what his inner self is telling him.
\par -"The Collected Sayings of Muad'Dib\'94 by the Princess Irulan
\par 
\par The crowd in the cavern assembly chamber radiated that pack feeling Jessica had sensed the day Paul killed Jamis. There was murmuring nervousness in the voices. Little cliques gathered like knots among the robes.
\par Jessica tucked a message cylinder beneath her robe as she emerged to the ledge from Paul's private quarters. She felt rested after the long journey up from the south, but still rankled that Paul would not yet permit them to use the captured ornithopters.

\par \'93We do not have full control of the air,\'94 he had said. \'93And we must not become dependent upon offworld fuel. Both fuel and aircraft must be gathered and saved for the day of maximum effort.\'94
\par Paul stood with a group of the younger men near the ledge. The pale light of glowglobes gave the scene a tinge of unreality. It was like a tableau, but with the added dimension of warren smells, the whispers, the sounds of shuffling feet.
\par She studied her son, wondering why he had not yet trotted out his surprise \endash  Gurney Halleck. Thought of Gurney disturbed her with its memories of an easier past \endash  days of love and beauty with Paul's father.
\par Stilgar waited with a small group of his own at the other end of the ledge. There was a feeling of inevitable dignity about him, the way he stood without talking.
\par We must not lose that man, Jessica thought. Paul's plan must work. Anything else would be highest tragedy.
\par She strode down the ledge, passing Stilgar without a glance, stepped down into the crowd. A way was made for her as she headed toward Paul. And silence followed her.
\par She knew the meaning of the silence \endash  the unspoken questions of the people, awe of the Reverend Mother.
\par The young men drew back from Paul as she came up to him, and she found herself momentarily dismayed by the new deference they paid him. \'93All men beneath your position covet your station,\'94
 went the Bene Gesserit axiom. But she found no covetousness in these faces. They were held at a distance by the religious ferment around Paul's leadership. And she recalled another Bene Gesserit saying: \'93Prophets have a way of dying by violence.\'94 

\par Paul looked at her.
\par \'93It's time,\'94 she said, and passed the message cylinder to him.
\par One of Paul's companions, bolder than the others, glanced across at Stilgar, said: \'93Are you going to call him out, Muad'Dib? Now's the time for sure. They'll think you a coward if you \endash \'94 
\par \'93Who dares call me coward?\'94 Paul demanded. His hand flashed to his crysknife hilt.
\par Bated silence came over the group, spreading out into the crowd.
\par \'93There's work to do,\'94 Paul said as the man drew back from him. Paul turned away, shouldered through the crowd to the ledge, leaped lightly up to it and faced the people. 
\par \'93Do it!\'94 someone shrieked.
\par Murmurs and whispers arose behind the shriek.
\par Paul waited for silence. It came slowly amidst scattered shufflings and coughs. When it was quiet in the cavern, Paul lifted his chin, spoke in a voice that carried to the farthest corners. 
\par \'93You are tired of waiting,\'94 Paul said.
\par Again, he waited while the cries of response died out.
\par Indeed, they are tired of waiting, Paul thought. He hefted the message cylinder, thinking of what it contained. His mother had showed it to him, explaining how it had been taken from a Harkonnen courier.
\par The message was explicit: Rabban was being abandoned to his own resources here on Arrakis! He could not call for help or reinforcements!
\par Again, Paul raised his voice: \'93You think it's time I called out Stilgar and changed the leadership of the troops!\'94 Before they could respond, Paul hurled his voice at them in anger: \'93Do you think the Lisan al-Gaib that stupid?\'94 
\par There was stunned silence.
\par He's accepting the religious mantle, Jessica thought. He must not do it!
\par \'93It's the way!\'94 someone shouted.
\par Paul spoke dryly, probing the emotional undercurrents. \'93Ways change.\'94
\par An angry voice lifted from a corner of the cavern: \'93We'll say what's to change!\'94 
\par There were scattered shouts of agreement through the throng. 
\par \'93As you wish,\'94 Paul said.
\par And Jessica heard the subtle intonations as he used the powers of Voice she had taught him.
\par \'93You will say,\'94 he agreed. \'93But first you will hear my say.\'94 
\par Stilgar moved along the ledge, his bearded face impassive. \'93That is the way, too,\'94 he said. \'93The voice of any Fremen may be heard in Council. Paul-Muad'Dib is a Fremen.\'94
\par \'93The good of the tribe, that is the most important thing, eh?\'94 Paul asked.
\par Still with that flat-voiced dignity, Stilgar said: \'93Thus our steps are guided.\'94
\par \'93All right,\'94 Paul said. \'93Then, who rules this troop of our tribe \endash  and who rules all the tribes and troops through the fighting instructors we've trained in the weirding way?\'94
\par Paul waited, looking over the heads of the throng. No answer came.
\par Presently, he said: \'93Does Stilgar rule all this? He says himself that he does not. Do I rule? Even Stilgar does my bidding on occasion, and the sages, the wisest of the wise, listen to me and honor me in Council.\'94
\par There was shuffling silence among the crowd.
\par \'93So,\'94 Paul said. \'93Does my mother rule?\'94 He pointed down to Jessica in her black robes of office among them. \'93
Stilgar and all the other troop leaders ask her advice in almost every major decision. You know this. But does a Reverend Mother walk the sand or lead a razzia against the Harkonnens?\'94
\par Frowns creased the foreheads of those Paul could see, but still there were angry murmurs.
\par This is a dangerous way to do it, Jessica thought, but she remembered the message cylinder and what it implied. And she saw Paul's intent: Go right to the depth of their uncertainty, dispose of that, and all the rest must follow.
\par \'93No man recognizes leadership without the challenge and the combat, eh?\'94 Paul asked.
\par \'93That's the way!\'94 someone shouted.
\par \'93What's our goal?\'94 Paul asked. \'93To unseat Rabban, the Harkonnen beast, and remake our world into a place where we may raise our families in happiness amidst an abundance of water \endash  is this our goal?\'94 
\par \'93Hard tasks need hard ways,\'94 someone shouted.
\par \'93Do you smash your knife before a battle?\'94 Paul demanded. \'93I say this as fact, not meaning it as boast or challenge: there isn't a m
an here, Stilgar included, who could stand against me in single combat. This is Stilgar's own admission. He knows it, so do you all.\'94
\par Again, the angry mutters lifted from the crowd.
\par \'93Many of you have been with me on the practice floor,\'94 Paul said. \'93You kno
w this isn't idle boast. I say it because it's fact known to us all, and I'd be foolish not to see it for myself. I began training in these ways earlier than you did and my teachers were tougher than any you've ever seen. How else do you think I bested Ja
mis at an age when your boys are still fighting only mock battles?\'94
\par He's using the Voice well, Jessica thought, but that's not enough with these people. They've good insulation against vocal control. He must catch them also with logic.
\par \'93So,\'94 Paul said, \'93we come to this.\'94 He lifted the message cylinder, removed its scrap of tape. \'93
This was taken from a Harkonnen courier. Its authenticity is beyond question. It is addressed to Rabban. It tells him that his request for new troops is denied, that his spice harve
st is far below quota, that he must wring more spice from Arrakis with the people he has.\'94 
\par Stilgar moved up beside Paul.
\par \'93How many of you see what this means?\'94 Paul asked. \'93Stilgar saw it immediately.\'94
\par \'93They're cut off!\'94 someone shouted.
\par Paul pushed message and cylinder into his sash. From his neck he took a braided shigawire cord and removed a ring from the cord, holding the ring aloft.
\par \'93This was my father's ducal signet,\'94 he said. \'93I swore never to wear it again until I was ready to lead my troops over all of Arrakis and claim it as my rightful fief.\'94 He put the ring on his finger, clenched his fist.
\par Utter stillness gripped the cavern.
\par \'93Who rules here?\'94 Paul asked. He raised his fist. \'93I rule here! I rule on every square inch of Arrakis! This is my ducal fief whether the Emperor says yea or nay! He gave it to my father and it comes to me through my father!\'94
\par Paul lifted himself onto his toes, settled back to his heels. He studied the crowd, feeling their temper. 
\par Almost, he thought.
\par \'93There are men here who will hold positions of importance on Arrakis when I claim those Imperial rights which are mine,\'94 Paul said. \'93
Stilgar is one of those men. Not because I wish to bribe him! Not out of gratitude, though I'm one of many here who owe him life for life. No! But 
because he's wise and strong. Because he governs this troop by his own intelligence and not just by rules. Do you think me stupid? Do you think I'll cut off my right arm and leave it bloody on the floor of this cavern just to provide you with a circus?
\'94 
\par Paul swept a hard gaze across the throng. \'93Who is there here to say I'm not the rightful ruler on Arrakis? Must I prove it by leaving every Fremen tribe in the erg without a leader?\'94 
\par Beside Paul, Stilgar stirred, looked at him questioningly.
\par \'93Will I subtract from our strength when we need it most?\'94 Paul asked. \'93I am your ruler, and I say to you that it is time we stopped killing off our best men and started killing our real enemies \endash  the Harkonnens!\'94
\par In one blurred motion, Stilgar had his crysknife out and pointed over the heads of the throng. \'93Long live Duke Paul-Muad'Dib!\'94 he shouted.
\par A deafening roar filled the cavern, echoed and re-echoed. They were cheering and chanting: \'93Ya hya chouhada! Muad'Dib! Muad'Dib! Muad'Dib! Ya hya chouhada!\'94
\par Jessica translated it to herself: \'93Long live the fighters of Muad'Dib!\'94 The scene she and Paul and Stilgar had cooked up between them had worked as they'd planned. 
\par The tumult died slowly.
\par When silence was restored, Paul faced Stilgar, said: \'93Kneel, Stilgar.\'94
\par Stilgar dropped to his knees on the ledge. 
\par \'93Hand me your crysknife,\'94 Paul said. 
\par Stilgar obeyed.
\par This was not as we planned it, Jessica thought.
\par \'93Repeat after me, Stilgar,\'94 Paul said, and he called up the words of investiture as he had heard his own father use them. \'93I, Stilgar, take this knife from the hands of my Duke.\'94
\par \'93I, Stilgar, take this knife from the hands of my Duke,\'94 Stilgar said, and accepted the milky blade from Paul.
\par \'93Where my Duke commands, there shall I place this blade,\'94 Paul said.
\par Stilgar repeated the words, speaking slowly and solemnly.
\par Remembering the source of the rite, Jessica blinked back tears, shook her head. I know the reasons for this, she thought. I shouldn't let it stir me.
\par \'93I dedicate this blade to the cause of my Duke and the death of his enemies for as long as our blood shall flow,\'94 Paul said. 
\par Stilgar repeated it after him. 
\par \'93Kiss the blade,\'94 Paul ordered.
\par Stilgar obeyed, then, in the Fremen manner, kissed Paul's knife arm. At a nod from Paul, he sheathed the blade, got to his feet.
\par A sighing whisper of awe passed through the crowd, and Jessica heard the words: \'93The prophecy \endash  A Bene Gesserit shall show the way and a Reverend Mother shall see it.\'94 And, from farther away: \'93She shows us through her son!\'94
\par \'93Stilgar leads this tribe,\'94 Paul said. \'93Let no man mistake that. He commands with my voice. What he tells you, it is as though I told you.\'94
\par Wise, Jessica thought. The tribal commander must lose no face among those who should obey him.
\par Paul lowered his voice, said: \'93Stilgar, I want sandwalkers
 out this night and cielagos sent to summon a Council Gathering. When you've sent them, bring Chatt, Korba and Otheym and two other lieutenants of your own choosing. Bring them to my quarters for battle planning. We must have a victory to show the Council
 of Leaders when they arrive.\'94
\par Paul nodded for his mother to accompany him, led the way down off the ledge and through the throng toward the central passage and the living chambers that had been prepared there. As Paul pressed through the crowd, hands reach
ed out to touch him. Voices called out to him.
\par \'93My knife goes where Stilgar commands it, Paul-Muad'Dib! Let us fight soon, Paul-Muad'Dib! Let us wet our world with the blood of Harkonnens!\'94
\par Feeling the emotions of the throng, Jessica sensed the fighting edge of these people. They could not be more ready. We are taking them at the crest, she thought.
\par In the inner chamber, Paul motioned his mother to be seated, said: \'93Wait here.\'94 And he ducked through the hangings to the side passage.
\par It was quiet in the chamber after Paul had gone, so quiet behind the hangings that not even the faint soughing of the wind pumps that circulated air in the sietch penetrated to where she sat.
\par He is going to bring Gurney Halleck here, she thought. And she wondered at the strange m
ingling of emotions that filled her. Gurney and his music had been a part of so many pleasant times on Caladan before the move to Arrakis. She felt that Caladan had happened to some other person. In the nearly three years since then, she had become anothe
r person. Having to confront Gurney forced a reassessment of the changes.
\par Paul's coffee service, the fluted alloy of silver and jasmium that he had inherited from Jamis, rested on a low table to her right. She stared at it, thinking of how many hands had touched that metal. Chani had served Paul from it within the month.
\par What can his desert woman do for a Duke except serve him coffee? she asked herself. She brings him no power, no family. Paul has only one major chance \endash  to ally himself with a powerful Great
 House, perhaps even with the Imperial family. There are marriageable princesses, after all, and every one of them Bene Gesserit trained.
\par Jessica imagined herself leaving the rigors of Arrakis for the life of power and security she could know as mother of a royal consort. She glanced at the thick hangings that obscured the rock of this cavern cell, thinking of how she had come here \endash 
 riding amidst a host of worms, the palanquins and pack platforms piled high with necessities for the coming campaign.
\par As long as Chani lives, Paul will not see his duty, Jessica thought. She has given him a son and that is enough.
\par A sudden longing to see her grandson, the child whose likeness carried so much of the grandfather's features \endash  so like Leto, swept through her. Jessic
a placed her palms against her cheeks, began the ritual breathing that stilled emotion and clarified the mind, then bent forward from the waist in the devotional exercise that prepared the body for the mind's demands.
\par Paul's choice of this Cave of Birds as
 his command post could not be questioned, she knew. It was ideal. And to the north lay Wind Pass opening onto a protected village in a cliff-walled sink. It was a key village, home of artisans and technicians, maintenance center for an entire Harkonnen d
efensive sector.
\par A cough sounded outside the chamber hangings. Jessica straightened, took a deep breath, exhaled slowly. \'93Enter,\'94 she said.
\par Draperies were flung aside and Gurney Halleck bounded into the room. She had only time for a glimpse of his face with its odd grimace, then he was behind her, lifting her to her feet with one brawny arm beneath her chin.
\par \'93Gurney, you fool, what are you doing?\'94 she demanded.
\par Then she felt the touch of the knife tip against her back. Chill awareness spread out from that kn
ife tip. She knew in that instant that Gurney meant to kill her. Why? She could think of no reason, for he wasn't the kind to turn traitor. But she felt certain of his intention. Knowing it, her mind churned. Here was no man to be overcome easily. Here wa
s a killer wary of the Voice, wary of every combat stratagem, wary of every trick of death and violence. Here was an instrument she herself had helped train with subtle hints and suggestions.
\par \'93You thought you had escaped, eh, witch?\'94 Gurney snarled.
\par Before she could turn the question over in her mind or try to answer, the curtains parted and Paul entered.
\par \'93Here he is, Moth \endash \'94 Paul broke off, taking in the tensions of the scene.
\par \'93You will stand where you are, m'Lord,\'94 Gurney said. 
\par \'93What\'85 \'94 Paul shook his head.
\par Jessica started to speak, felt the arm tighten against her throat.
\par \'93You will speak only when I permit it, witch,\'94 Gurney said. \'93I want only one thing from you for your son to hear it, and I am prepared to send this knife into your heart by reflex at the
 first sign of a counter against me. Your voice will remain in a monotone. Certain muscles you will not tense or move. You will act with the most extreme caution to gain yourself a few more seconds of life. And I assure you, these are all you have.\'94 

\par Paul took a step forward. \'93Gurney, man, what is \endash \'94 
\par \'93Stop right where you are!\'94 Gurney snapped. \'93One more step and she's dead.\'94
\par Paul's hand slipped to his knife hilt. He spoke in a deadly quiet: \'93You had best explain yourself, Gurney.\'94
\par \'93I swore an oath to slay the betrayer of your father,\'94 Gurney said. \'93Do you think I can forget the man who rescued me from a Harkonnen slave pit, gave me freedom, life, and honor\'85
 gave me friendship, a thing I prized above all else? I have his betrayer under my knife. No one can stop me from \endash \'94 
\par \'93You couldn't be more wrong, Gurney,\'94 Paul said. 
\par And Jessica thought: So that's it! What irony!
\par \'93Wrong, am I?\'94 Gurney demanded. \'93Let us hear it from the woman herself. And let her remember that I have bribed and spied and cheated to confirm this charge. I've even pushed semuta on a Harkonnen guard captain to get part of the story.\'94 

\par Jessica felt the arm at her throat ease slightly, but before she could speak, Paul said: \'93The betrayer was Yueh. I tell you this once, Gurney. The evidence is complete, cannot be controverted. It was Yueh. I do not care how you came by your suspicion 
\endash  for it can be nothing else \endash  but if you harm my mother\'85 \'94 Paul lifted his crysknife from its scabbard, held the blade in front of him. \'93\'85 I'll have your blood.\'94
\par \'93Yueh was a conditioned medic, fit for a royal house,\'94 Gurney snarled. \'93He could not turn traitor!\'94 
\par \'93I know a way to remove that conditioning,\'94 Paul said. 
\par \'93Evidence,\'94 Gurney insisted.
\par \'93The evidence is not here,\'94 Paul said. \'93It's in Tabr sietch, far to the south, but if \endash \'94
\par \'93This is a trick,\'94 Gurney snarled, and his arm tightened on Jessica's throat.
\par \'93No trick, Gurney,\'94 Paul said, and his voice carried such a note of terrible sadness that the sound tore at Jessica's heart.
\par \'93I saw the message captured from the Harkonnen agent,\'94 Gurney said. \'93The note pointed directly at \endash \'94
\par \'93I saw it, too,\'94 Paul said. \'93My father showed it to me the night he explained why it had to be a Harkonnen trick aimed at making him suspect the woman he loved.\'94 
\par \'93Ayah!\'94 Gurney said. \'93You've not \endash \'94
\par \'93Be quiet,\'94 Paul said, and the monotone stillness of his words carried more command than Jessica had ever heard in another voice. 
\par He has the Great Control, she thought.
\par Gurney's arm trembled against her neck. The point of the knife at her back moved with uncertainty.
\par \'93What you have not done,\'94 Paul said, \'93is heard my mother sobbing in the night over her lost Duke. You have not seen her eyes stab flame when she speaks of killing Harkonnens.\'94 
\par So he has listened, she thought. Tears blinded her eyes.
\par \'93What you have not done,\'94 Paul went on, \'93
is remembered the lessons you learned in a Harkonnen slave pit. You speak of pride in my father's friendship! Didn't you learn the difference between Harkonnen and Atreides so that you could smell a Harkonnen trick b
y the stink they left on it? Didn't you learn that Atreides loyalty is bought with love while the Harkonnen coin is hate? Couldn't you see through to the very nature of this betrayal?\'94 
\par \'93But Yueh?\'94 Gurney muttered.
\par \'93The evidence we have is Yueh's own message to us admitting his treachery,\'94 Paul said. \'93I swear this to you by the love I hold for you, a love I will still hold even after I leave you dead on this floor.\'94 
\par Hearing her son, Jessica marveled at the awareness in him, the penetrating insight of his intelligence.
\par \'93My father had an instinct for his friends,\'94 Paul said. \'93He gave his love sparingly, but with never an error. His weakness lay in misunderstanding hatred. He thought anyone who hated Harkonnens could not betray him.\'94 He glanced at his mother. 
\'93She knows this. I've given her my father's message that he never distrusted her.\'94
\par Jessica felt herself losing control, bit at her lower lip. Seeing the stiff formality in Paul, she realized what these words were costing him. She wanted to run to him, crad
le his head against her breast as she never had done. But the arm against her throat had ceased its trembling; the knifepoint at her back pressed still and sharp.
\par \'93One of the most terrible moments in a boy's life,\'94 Paul said, \'93is when he discovers his fath
er and mother are human beings who share a love that he can never quite taste. It's a loss, an awakening to the fact that the world is there and here and we are in it alone. The moment carries its own truth; you can't evade it. I heard my father when he s
poke of my mother. She's not the betrayer, Gurney.\'94 
\par Jessica found her voice, said: \'93Gurney, release me.\'94 There was no special command in the words, no trick to play on his weaknesses, but Gurney's hand fell away. She crossed to Paul, stood in front of him, not touching him.
\par \'93Paul,\'94 she said, \'93there are other awakenings in this universe. I suddenly see how I've used you and twisted you and manipulated you to set you on a course of my choosing\'85 a course I had to choose \endash  if that's any excuse \endash 
 because of my own training.\'94 She swallowed past a lump in her throat, looked up into her son's eyes. \'93Paul\'85
 I want you to do something for me: choose the course of happiness. Your desert woman, marry her if that's your wish. Defy everyone and everything to do this. But choose your own course. I\'85 \'94 
\par She broke off, stopped by the low sound of muttering behind her. 
\par Gurney!
\par She saw Paul's eyes directed beyond her, turned.
\par Gurney stood in the same spot, but had sheathed his knife, pulled the robe away from his breast to expose the slick grayness of an issue stillsuit, the type the smugglers traded for among the sietch warrens.
\par \'93Put your knife right here in my breast,\'94 Gurney muttered. \'93I say kill me and have done with it. I've besmirched my name. I've betrayed my own Duke! The finest \endash \'94 
\par \'93Be still!\'94 Paul said. 
\par Gurney stared at him.
\par \'93Close that robe and stop acting like a fool,\'94 Paul said. \'93I've had enough foolishness for one day.\'94 
\par \'93Kill me, I say!\'94 Gurney raged.
\par \'93You know me better than that,\'94 Paul said. \'93How many kinds of an idiot do you think I am? Must I go through this with every man I need?\'94
\par Gurney looked at Jessica, spoke in a forlorn, pleading note so unlike him: \'93Then you, my Lady, please\'85 you kill me.\'94
\par Jessica crossed to him, put her hands on his shoulders. \'93Gurney, why do you insist the Atreides must kill those they love?\'94 Gently, she pulled the spread robe out of his fingers, closed and fastened the fabric over his chest.
\par Gurney spoke brokenly; \'93But\'85 I\'85 \'94
\par \'93You thought you were doing a thing for Leto,\'94 she said, \'93and for this I honor you.\'94
\par \'93My Lady,\'94 Gurney said. He dropped his chin to his chest, squeezed his eyelids closed against the tears.
\par \'93Let us think of this as a misunderstanding among old friends,\'94 she said, and Paul heard the soothers, the adjusting tones in her voice. \'93It's over and we can be thankful we'll never again have that sort of misunderstanding between us.\'94 

\par Gurney opened eyes bright with moisture, looked down at her.
\par \'93The Gurney Halleck I knew was a man adept with both blade and baliset,\'94 Jessica said. \'93
It was the man of the baliset I most admired. Doesn't that Gurney Halleck remember how I used to enjoy listening by the hour while he played for me? Do you still have a baliset, Gurney?\'94
\par \'93I've a new one,\'94 Gurney said. \'93Brought from Chusuk, a sweet instrument. Plays like a genuine Varota, though there's no signature on it. I think myself it was made by a student of Varota's who\'85\'94 He broke off. \'93
What can I say to you, my Lady? Here we prattle about \endash \'94
\par \'93Not prattle, Gurney,\'94 Paul said. He crossed to stand beside his mother, eye to eye with Gurney. \'93
Not prattle, but a thing that brings happiness between friends. I'd take it a kindness if you'd play for her now. Battle planning can wait a little while. We'll not be going into the fight till tomorrow at any rate.\'94
\par \'93I\'85 I'll get my baliset,\'94 Gurney said. \'93It's in the passage.\'94 He stepped around them and through the hangings.
\par Paul put a hand on his mother's arm, found that she was trembling.
\par \'93It's over, Mother,\'94 he said.
\par Without turning her head, she looked up at him from the corners of her eyes. \'93Over?\'94 
\par \'93Of course. Gurney's\'85 \'94 
\par \'93Gurney? Oh\'85 yes.\'94 She lowered her gaze.
\par The hangings rustled as Gurney returned with his baliset. He began tuning it, avoiding their eyes. The hangings on the walls dulled the echoes, making the instrument sound small and intimate.
\par Paul led his mother to a cushion, seated her there with her back to the thick draperies of the wall. He was suddenly struck by how old she seemed to him with the beginnings of desert-dried lines in her face, the 
stretching at the corners of her blue-veiled eyes.
\par She's tired, he thought. We must find some way to ease her burdens.
\par Gurney strummed a chord.
\par Paul glanced at him, said: \'93I've\'85 things that need my attention. Wait here for me.\'94
\par Gurney nodded. His mind seemed far away, as though he dwelled for this moment beneath the open skies of Caladan with cloud fleece on the horizon promising rain.
\par Paul forced himself to turn away, let himself out through the heavy hangings over the side passage. He heard Gurney take up a tune behind him, and paused a moment outside the room to listen to the muted music.
\par 
\par \'93Orchards and vineyards, 
\par And full-breasted houris, 
\par And a cup overflowing before me. 
\par Why do I babble of battles, 
\par And mountains reduced to dust? 
\par Why do I feel these tears?
\par 
\par Heavens stand open 
\par And scatter their riches; 
\par My hands need but gather their wealth.
\par Why do I think of an ambush, 
\par And poison in molten cup? 
\par Why do I feel my years?
\par 
\par Love's arms beckon 
\par With their naked delights, 
\par And Eden's promise of ecstasies. 
\par Why do I remember the scars, 
\par Dream of old transgressions\'85
\par And why do I sleep with fears?\'94
\par 
\par A robed Fedaykin courier appeared from a corner of the passage ahead of Paul. The man had hood thrown back and fastenings of his stillsuit hanging loose about his neck, proof that he had come just now from the open desert.
\par Paul motioned for him to stop, left the hangings of the door and moved down the passage to the courier.
\par The man bowed, hands clasped in front of him the way he might greet a Reverend Mother or Sayyadina of the rites. He said: \'93Muad'Dib, leaders are beginning to arrive for the Council.\'94 
\par \'93So soon?\'94
\par \'93These are the ones Stilgar sent for earlier when it was thought\'85\'94 He shrugged.
\par \'93I see.\'94 Paul glanced back toward the faint sound of the baliset, thinking of the old song that his mother favored \endash  an odd stretching of happy tune and sad words. \'93Stilgar will come here soon with others. Show them where my mother waits.
\'94 
\par \'93I will wait here, Muad'Dib,\'94 the courier said. 
\par \'93Yes\'85 yes, do that.\'94
\par Paul pressed past the man toward the depths of the cavern, headed for the place that each such cavern had \endash 
 a place near its water-holding basin. There would be a small shai-hulud in this place, a creature no more than nine meters long, kept stunted and trapped by surround
ing water ditches. The maker, after emerging from its little maker vector, avoided water for the poison it was. And the drowning of a maker was the greatest Fremen secret because it produced the substance of their union \endash 
 the Water of Life, the poison that could only be changed by a Reverend Mother.
\par The decision had come to Paul while he faced the tension of danger to his mother. No line of the future he had ever seen carried that moment, of peril from Gurney Halleck. The future \endash  the gray-cloud-future \endash  wi
th its feeling that the entire universe rolled toward a boiling nexus hung around him like a phantom world.
\par I must see it, he thought.
\par His body had slowly acquired a certain spice tolerance that made prescient visions fewer and fewer\'85 dimmer and dimmer. The solution appeared obvious to him.
\par I will drown the maker. We will see now whether I'm the Kwisatz Haderach who can survive the test that the Reverend Mothers have survived.
\par 
\par 
\par And it came to pass in the third year of the Desert War that Paul-Muad'Dib lay 
alone in the Cave of Birds beneath the kiswa hangings of an inner cell. And he lay as one dead, caught up in the revelation of the Water of Life, his being translated beyond the boundaries of time by the poison that gives life. Thus was the prophecy made 
true that the Lisan al-Gaib might be both dead and alive.
\par -"Collected Legends of Arrakis\'94 by the Princess Irulan
\par 
\par Chani came up out of the Habbanya basin in the predawn darkness, hearing the \lquote thopter that had brought her from the south go whir-whirring off 
to a hiding place in the vastness. Around her, the escort kept its distance, fanning out into the rocks of the ridge to probe for dangers \endash 
 and giving the mate of Muad'Dib, the mother of his firstborn, the thing she had requested: a moment to walk alone.
\par Why did he summon me? she asked herself. He told me before that I must remain in the south with little Leto and Alia.
\par She gathered her robe and leaped lightly up across a barrier rock and onto the climbing path that only the desert-trained could recognize in the darkness. Pebbles slithered underfoot and she danced across them without considering the nimbleness required.

\par The climb was exhilarating, easing the fears that had fermented in her because of her escort's silent withdrawal and the fact that a precious \lquote 
thopter had been sent for her. She felt the inner leaping at the nearness of reunion with Paul-Muad'Dib, her Usul. His name might be a battle cry over all the land: \'93Muad'Dib! Muad'Dib! Muad'Dib!\'94 But she knew a different man by a different name 
\endash  the father of her son, the tender lover.
\par A great figure loomed out of the rocks above her, beckoning for speed. She quickened her pace. Dawn birds already were calling and lifting into the sky. A dim spread of light grew across the eastern horizon.
\par The figure a
bove was not one of her own escort. Otheym? she wondered, marking a familiarity of movement and manner. She came up to him, recognized in the growing light the broad, flat features of the Fedaykin lieutenant, his hood open and mouth filter loosely fastene
d the way one did sometimes when venturing out on the desert for only a moment.
\par \'93Hurry,\'94 he hissed, and led her down the secret crevasse into the hidden cave. \'93It will be light soon,\'94 he whispered as he held a doorseal open for her. \'93The Harkonnens have bee
n making desperation patrols over some of this region. We dare not chance discovery now.\'94
\par They emerged into the narrow side-passage entrance to the Cave of Birds. Glowglobes came alight. Otheym pressed past her, said: \'93Follow me. Quickly, now.\'94
\par They sped d
own the passage, through another valve door, another passage and through hangings into what had been the Sayyadina's alcove in the days when this was an overday rest cave. Rugs and cushions now covered the floor. Woven hangings with the red figure of a ha
wk hid the rock walls. A low field desk at one side was strewn with papers from which lifted the aroma of their spice origin.
\par The Reverend Mother sat alone directly opposite the entrance. She looked up with the inward stare that made the uninitiated tremble.
\par Otheym pressed palms together, said: \'93I have brought Chani.\'94 He bowed, retreated through the hangings. 
\par And Jessica thought: How do I tell Chani? 
\par \'93How is my grandson?\'94 Jessica asked.
\par So it's to be the ritual greeting, Chani thought, and her fears returned. Where is Muad'Dib? Why isn't he here to greet me?
\par \'93He is healthy and happy, my mother,\'94 Chani said. \'93I left him with Alia in the care of Harah.\'94
\par My mother, Jessica thought. Yes, she has the right to call me that in the formal greeting. She has given me a grandson.
\par \'93I hear a gift of cloth has been sent from Coanua sietch,\'94 Jessica said.
\par \'93It is lovely cloth,\'94 Chani said. 
\par \'93Does Alia send a message?\'94
\par \'93No message. But the sietch moves more smoothly now that the people are beginning to accept the miracle of her status.\'94 
\par Why does she drag this out so? Chani wondered. Something was so urgent that they sent a \lquote thopter for me. Now, we drag through the formalities!
\par \'93We must have some of the new cloth cut into garments for little Leto,\'94 Jessica said.
\par \'93Whatever you wish, my mother,\'94 Chani said. She lowered her gaze. \'93Is there news of battles?\'94 She held her face expressionless that Jessica might not see the betrayal \endash  that this was a question about Paul Muad'Dib.
\par \'93New victories,\'94 Jessica said. \'93Rabban has sent cautious overtures about a truce. His messengers have been returned without their water. Rabban has even lightened the burdens of the people in some of the sink villages. But he is too late. \'93
The people know he does it out of fear of us.\'94
\par \'93Thus it goes as Muad'Dib said,\'94 Chani said. She stared at Jessica, trying to keep her fears to herself. I have spoken his name, but she has not responded. One cannot see emotion in that glazed stone she calls a face\'85
 but she is too frozen. Why is she so still? What has happened to my Usul?
\par \'93I wish we were in the south,\'94 Jessica said. \'93The oases were so beautiful when we left. Do you not long for the day when the whole land may blossom thus?\'94
\par \'93The land is beautiful, true,\'94 Chani said. \'93But there is much grief in it.\'94 
\par \'93Grief is the price of victory,\'94 Jessica said.
\par Is she preparing me for grief? Chani asked herself. She said: \'93There are so many women without men. There was jealousy when it was learned that I'd been summoned north.\'94 
\par \'93I summoned you,\'94 Jessica said.
\par Chani felt her heart hammering. She wanted to clap her hands to her ears, fearful of what they might hear. Still, she kept her voice even: \'93The message was signed Muad'Dib.\'94
\par \'93I signed it thus in the presence of his lieutenants,\'94 Jessica said. \'93It was a subterfuge of necessity.\'94
 And Jessica thought: This is a brave woman, my Paul's. She holds to the niceties even when fear is almost overwhelming her. Yes. She may be the one we need now.
\par Only the slightest tone of resignation crept into Chani's voice as she said: \'93Now you may say the thing that must be said.\'94 
\par \'93You were needed here to help me revive Paul,\'94 Jessica said. And she thought: There! I said it in the precisely correct way. Revive. Thus she knows Paul is alive and knows there is peril, all in the same word.
\par Chani took only a moment to calm herself, then: \'93What is it I may do?\'94 She wanted to leap at Jessica, shake her and scream: \'93Take me to him!\'94 But she waited silently for the answer.
\par \'93I suspect,\'94 Jessica said, \'93that the Harkonnens have managed to send an agent among us to poison Paul. It's the only explanation that seems to fit. A most unusual poison. I've examined his blood in the most subtle ways without detecting it.\'94

\par Chani thrust herself forward onto her knees. \'93Poison? Is he in pain? Could I\'85 \'94
\par \'93He is unconscious,\'94 Jessica said. \'93
The processes of his life are so low that they can be detected only with the most refined techniques. I shudder to think what could have happened had I not been the one to discover him. He appears dead to the untrained eye.\'94 
\par \'93You have reasons other than courtesy for summoning me,\'94 Chani said. \'93I know you, Reverend Mother. What is it you think I may do that you cannot do?\'94
\par She is brave, lovely and, ah-h-h, so perceptive, Jessica thought. She'd have made a fine Bene Gesserit.
\par \'93Chani,\'94 Jessica said, \'93you may find this difficult to believe, but I do not know precisely why I sent for you. It was an instinct\'85 a basic intuition. The thought came unbidden: \lquote Send for Chani.\rquote  \'93 
\par For the first time, Chani saw the sadness in Jessica's expression, the unveiled pain modifying the inward stare.
\par \'93I've done all I know to do,\'94 Jessica said. \'93That all\'85 it is so far beyond what is usually supposed as all that you would find difficulty imagining it. Yet\'85 I failed.\'94
\par \'93The old companion, Halleck,\'94 Chani asked, \'93is it possible he's a traitor?\'94 
\par \'93Not Gurney,\'94 Jessica said.
\par The two words carried an entire conversation, and Chani saw the searching, the tests\'85 the memories of old failures that went into this flat denial.
\par Chani rocked back onto her feet, stood up, smoothed her desert-stained robe. \'93Take me to him,\'94 she said.
\par Jessica arose, turned through hangings on the left wall.
\par Chani followed, found herself in what had been a storeroom, its rock walls concealed now beneath heavy draperies. Paul lay on a field pad again
st the far wall. A single glowglobe above him illuminated his face. A black robe covered him to the chest, leaving his arms outside it stretched along his sides. He appeared to be unclothed under the robe. The skin exposed looked waxen, rigid. There was n
o visible movement to him.
\par Chani suppressed the desire to dash forward, throw herself across him. She found her thoughts, instead, going to her son \endash  Leto. And she realized in this instant that Jessica once had faced such a moment \endash  her man threatened by de
ath, forced in her own mind to consider what might be done to save a young son. The realization formed a sudden bond with the older woman so that Chani reached out and clasped Jessica's hand. The answering grip was painful in its intensity.
\par \'93He lives,\'94 Jessica said. \'93
I assure you he lives. But the thread of his life is so thin it could easily escape detection. There are some among the leaders already muttering that the mother speaks and not the Reverend Mother, that my son is truly dead and I do not want to
 give up his water to the tribe.\'94
\par \'93How long has he been this way?\'94 Chani asked. She disengaged her hand from Jessica's, moved farther into the room.
\par \'93Three weeks,\'94 Jessica said. \'93I spent almost a week trying to revive him. There were meetings, arguments\'85 investigations. Then I sent for you. The Fedaykin obey my orders, else I might not have been able to delay the\'85 \'94
 She wet her lips with her tongue, watching Chani cross to Paul.
\par Chani stood over him now, looking down on the soft beard of youth that framed his face, tracing with her eyes the high browline, the strong nose, the shuttered eyes \endash  the features so peaceful in this rigid repose.
\par \'93How does he take nourishment?\'94 Chani asked.
\par \'93The demands of his flesh are so slight he does not yet need food,\'94 Jessica said.
\par \'93How many know of what has happened?\'94 Chani asked.
\par \'93Only his closest advisers, a few of the leaders, the Fedaykin and, of course, whoever administered the poison.\'94 
\par \'93There is no clue to the poisoner?\'94 
\par \'93And it's not for want of investigating,\'94 Jessica said. 
\par \'93What do the Fedaykin say?\'94 Chani asked.
\par \'93They believe Paul is in a sacred trance, gathering his holy powers before the final battles. This is a thought I've cultivated.\'94 
\par Chani lowered herself to her knees beside the pad, bent close to Paul's face. She sensed an immediate difference in the air about his face\'85 but it was only the spice, the ubiquitous spice whose odor permeated everything in Fremen life. Still\'85 

\par \'93You were not born to the spice as we were,\'94 Chani said. \'93Have you investigated the possibility that his body has rebelled against too much spice in his diet?\'94
\par \'93Allergy reactions are all negative,\'94 Jessica said.
\par She closed her eyes, as much to blot out this scene as because of sudden realization of fatigue. How long have I been without sleep? she asked herself. Too long.
\par \'93When you change the Water of Life,\'94 Chani said, \'93you do it within yourself by the inward awareness. Have you used this awareness to test his blood?\'94
\par \'93Normal Fremen blood,\'94 Jessica said. \'93Completely adapted to the diet and the life here.\'94
\par Chani sat back on her heels, submerging her fears in thought as she studied Paul's face. This was a trick she had learned from watching the Reverend Mothers. Time could be made to serve the mind. One concentrated the entire attention. 
\par Presently, Chani said: \'93Is there a maker here?\'94 
\par \'93There are several,\'94 Jessica said with a touch of weariness. \'93We are never without them these days. Each victory requires its blessing. Each ceremony before a raid \endash \'94
\par \'93But Paul Muad'Dib has held himself aloof from these ceremonies,\'94 Chani said.
\par Jessica nodded to herself, remembering her son's ambivalent feelings toward the spice drug and the prescient awareness it precipitated.
\par \'93How did you know this?\'94 Jessica asked. 
\par \'93It is spoken.\'94 
\par \'93Too much is spoken,\'94 Jessica said bitterly. 
\par \'93Get me the raw Water of the maker,\'94 Chani said.
\par Jessica stiffened at the tone of command in Chani's voice, then observed the intense concentration in the younger woman and said: \'93At once.\'94 She went out through the hangings to send a waterman.
\par Chani sat staring at Paul. If he has tried to do this, she thought. And it's the sort of thing he might try\'85 
\par Jessica knelt beside Chani, holding out a plain camp ewer. The charged odor of the poison was sharp in Chani's nostrils. She dipped a finger in the fluid, held the finger close to Paul's nose.
\par The skin along the bridge of his nose wrinkled slightly. Slowly, the nostrils flared. 
\par Jessica gasped.
\par Chani touched the dampened finger to Paul's upper lip. 
\par He drew in a long, sobbing breath. \'93What is this?\'94 Jessica demanded.
\par \'93Be still,\'94 Chani said. \'93You must convert a small amount of the sacred water. Quickly!\'94
\par Without questioning, because she recognized the tone of awareness in Chani's voice, Jessica lifted the ewer to her mouth, drew in a small sip.
\par Paul's eyes flew open. He stared upward at Chani.
\par \'93It is not necessary for her to change the Water,\'94 he said. His voice was weak, but steady.
\par Jessica, a sip of the fluid on her tongue, found her body rallying, converting the poison almost automatically. In the light elevation the ceremony always imparted, she sensed the life-glow from Paul \endash  a radiation there registering on her senses. 

\par In that instant, she knew.
\par \'93You drank the sacred water!\'94 she blurted. 
\par \'93One drop of it,\'94 Paul said. \'93So small\'85 one drop.\'94 
\par \'93How could you do such a foolish thing?\'94 she demanded. 
\par \'93He is your son,\'94 Chani said. 
\par Jessica glared at her.
\par A rare smile, warm and full of understanding, touched Paul's lips. \'93Hear my beloved,\'94 he said. \'93Listen to her, Mother. She knows.\'94 
\par \'93A thing that others can do, he must do,\'94 Chani said.
\par \'93When I had the drop in my mouth, when I felt it and smelled it, when I knew what it was doing to me, then I knew I could do the thing that you have done,\'94 he said. \'93Your Bene Gesserit proctors speak of the Kwisatz Ha
derach, but they cannot begin to guess the many places I have been. In the few minutes I\'85 \'94 He broke off, looking at Chani with a puzzled frown. \'93Chani? How did you get here? You're supposed to be\'85 Why are you here?\'94 
\par He tried to push himself onto his elbows. Chani pressed him back gently.
\par \'93Please, my Usul,\'94 she said.
\par \'93I feel so weak,\'94 he said. His gaze darted around the room. \'93How long have I been here?\'94
\par \'93You've been three weeks in a coma so deep that the spark of life seemed to have fled,\'94 Jessica said.
\par \'93But it was\'85 I took it just a moment ago and\'85 \'94 
\par \'93A moment for you, three weeks of fear for me,\'94 Jessica said.
\par \'93It was only one drop, but I converted it,\'94 Paul said. \'93I changed the Water of Life.\'94 And before Chani or Jessica could stop him, he dipped his ha
nd into the ewer they had placed on the floor beside him, and he brought the dripping hand to his mouth, swallowed the palm-cupped liquid.
\par \'93Paul!\'94 Jessica screamed.
\par He grabbed her hand, faced her with a death's head grin, and he sent his awareness surging over her.
\par The rapport was not as tender, not as sharing, not as encompassing as it had been with Alia and with the Old Reverend Mother in the cavern\'85 but it was a rapport: a sense-sharing of the entire being. It shook her, weakened her, and she cowered in 
her mind, fearful of him.
\par Aloud, he said: \'93You speak of a place where you cannot enter? This place which the Reverend Mother cannot face, show it to me.\'94 
\par She shook her head, terrified by the very thought. 
\par \'93Show it to me!\'94 he commanded. 
\par \'93No!\'94
\par But she could not escape him. Bludgeoned by the terrible force of him, she closed her eyes and focused inward \endash  the-direction-that-is-dark.
\par Paul's consciousness flowed through and around her and into the darkness. She glimpsed the place dimly before her mind blanked itself away from the terror. Without knowing why, her whole being trembled at what she had seen \endash 
 a region where a wind blew and sparks glared, where rings of light expanded and contracted, where rows of tumescent white shapes flowed over and under and around the lights, driven by darkness and a wind out of nowhere.
\par Presently, she opened her eyes, saw Paul staring up at her. He still held her hand, but the terrible rapport was gone. She quieted her trembling. Paul released her hand. It was as though some cr
utch had been removed. She staggered up and back, would have fallen had not Chani jumped to support her.
\par \'93Reverend Mother!\'94 Chani said. \'93What is wrong?\'94 
\par \'93Tired,\'94 Jessica whispered. \'93So\'85 tired.\'94
\par \'93Here,\'94 Chani said. \'93Sit here.\'94 She helped Jessica to a cushion against the wall.
\par The strong young arms felt so good to Jessica. She clung to Chani.
\par \'93He has, in truth, seen the Water of Life?\'94 Chani asked. She disengaged herself from Jessica's grip.
\par \'93He has seen,\'94 Jessica whispered. Her mind still rolled and surged from the contact. It was like stepping to solid land after weeks on a heaving sea. She sensed the old Reverend Mother within her\'85 and all the others awakened and questioning; \'93
What was that? What happened? Where was that place?\'94
\par Through it all threaded the realization that her son was the Kwisatz Haderach, the one who could be many places at once. He was the fact out of the Bene Gesserit dream. And the fact gave her no peace.
\par \'93What happened?\'94 Chani demanded. 
\par Jessica shook her head.
\par Paul said: \'93There is in 
each of us an ancient force that takes and an ancient force that gives. A man finds little difficulty facing that place within himself where the taking force dwells, but it's almost impossible for him to see into the giving force without changing into som
ething other than man. For a woman, the situation is reversed.\'94 
\par Jessica looked up, found Chani was staring at her while listening to Paul.
\par \'93Do you understand me, Mother?\'94 Paul asked. 
\par She could only nod.
\par \'93These things are so ancient within us,\'94 Paul said, \'93that they're ground into each separate cell of our bodies. We're shaped by such forces. You can say to yourself, \lquote Yes, I see how such a thing may be.\rquote 
 But when you look inward and confront the raw force of your own life unshielded, you see your peril. You
 see that this could overwhelm you. The greatest peril to the Giver is the force that takes. The greatest peril to the Taker is the force that gives. It's as easy to be overwhelmed by giving as by taking.\'94 
\par \'93And you, my son,\'94 Jessica asked, \'93are you one who gives or one who takes?\'94
\par \'93I'm at the fulcrum,\'94 he said. \'93I cannot give without taking and I cannot take without\'85 \'94 He broke off, looking to the wall at his right.
\par Chani felt a draft against her cheek, turned to see the hangings close.
\par \'93It was Otheym,\'94 Paul said. \'93He was listening.\'94 
\par Accepting the words, Chani was touched by some of the prescience that haunted Paul, and she knew a thing-yet-to-be as though it already had occurred. Otheym would speak of what he had seen and heard. Others would spread the st
ory until it was a fire over the land. Paul-Muad'Dib is not as other men, they would say. There can be no more doubt. He is a man, yet he sees through to the Water of Life in the way of a Reverend Mother. He is indeed the Lisan al-Gaib.
\par \'93You have seen the future, Paul,\'94 Jessica said. \'93Will you say what you've seen?\'94
\par \'93Not the future,\'94 he said. \'93I've seen the Now.\'94 He forced himself to a sitting position, waved Chani aside as she moved to help him. \'93The Space above Arrakis is filled with the ships of the Guild.\'94 
\par Jessica trembled at the certainty in his voice.
\par \'93The Padishah Emperor himself is there,\'94 Paul said. He looked at the rock ceiling of his cell. \'93With his favorite Truthsayer and five legions of Sardaukar. The old Baron Vladimir Harkonnen is there with 
Thufir Hawat beside him and seven ships jammed with every conscript he could muster. Every Great House has its raiders above us\'85 waiting.\'94
\par Chani shook her head, unable to look away from Paul. His strangeness, the flat tone of voice, the way he looked through her, filled her with awe.
\par Jessica tried to swallow in a dry throat, said: \'93For what are they waiting?\'94
\par Paul looked at her. \'93For the Guild's permission to land. The Guild will strand on Arrakis any force that lands without permission.\'94 
\par \'93The Guild's protecting us?\'94 Jessica asked.
\par \'93Protecting us! The Guild itself caused this by spreading tales about what we do here and by reducing troop transport fares to a point where even the poorest Houses are up there now waiting to loot us.\'94
\par Jessica noted the lack of bitterness in his tone, wondered at it. She couldn't doubt his words \endash  they had that same intensity she'd seen in him the night he'd revealed the path of the future that'd taken them among the Fremen.
\par Paul took a deep breath, said: \'93Mother, you must change a quantity of the Water for us. We need the catalyst. Chani, have a scout force sent out\'85
 to find a pre-spice mass. If we plant a quantity of the Water of Life above a pre-spice mass, do you know what will happen?\'94
\par Jessica weighed his words, suddenly saw through to his meaning. \'93Paul!\'94 she gasped.
\par \'93The Water of Death,\'94 he said. \'93It'd be a chain reaction.\'94 He pointed to the floor. \'93Spreading death among the little makers, killing a vector of the life cycle that includes the spice and the makers. Arrakis will become a true desolation 
\endash  without spice or maker.\'94
\par Chani put a hand to her mouth, shocked to numb silence by the blasphemy pouring from Paul's lips.
\par \'93He who can destroy a thing has the real control of it,\'94 Paul said. \'93We can destroy the spice.\'94 
\par \'93What stays the Guild's hand?\'94 Jessica whispered.
\par \'93They're searching for me,\'94 Paul said. \'93Think of that! The finest Guild navigators, men who can quest ahead through time to find the safest course for the fastest Heighliners, all of them seeking me\'85and unable to 
find me. How they tremble! They know I have their secret here!\'94 Paul held out his cupped hand. \'93Without the spice they're blind!\'94 
\par Chani found her voice. \'93You said you see the now!\'94 
\par Paul lay back, searching the spread-out present, its limits extended into the future and into the past, holding onto the awareness with difficulty as the spice illumination began to fade.
\par \'93Go do as I commanded,\'94 he said. \'93The future's becoming as muddled for the Guild as it is for me. The lines of vision are narrowing. Everything focuses here where the spice is\'85 where they've dared not interfere before\'85
 because to interfere was to lose what they must have. But now they're desperate. All paths lead into darkness.\'94
\par 
\par 
\par And that day dawned when Arrakis lay at the hub of the universe with the wheel poised to spin.
\par -from \'93Arrakis Awakening\'94 by the Princess Irulan
\par 
\par \'93Will you look at that thing!\'94 Stilgar whispered.
\par Paul lay beside him in a slit of rock high on the Shield Wall rim, eye fixed to the collector of a Fremen telescope. The oil 
lens was focused on a starship lighter exposed by dawn in the basin below them. The tall eastern face of the ship glistened in the flat light of the sun, but the shadow side still showed yellow portholes from glowglobes of the night. Beyond the ship, the 
city of Arrakeen lay cold and gleaming in the light of the northern sun.
\par It wasn't the lighter that excited Stilgar's awe, Paul knew, but the construction for which the lighter was only the centerpost. A single metal hutment, many stories tall, reached out in a thousand-meter circle from the base of the lighter \endash 
 a tent composed of interlocking metal leaves \endash  the temporary lodging place for five legions of Sardaukar and His Imperial Majesty, the Padishah Emperor Shaddam IV.
\par From his position squatting at Paul's left, Gurney Halleck said: \'93I count nine levels to it. Must be quite a few Sardaukar in there.\'94 
\par \'93Five legions,\'94 Paul said.
\par \'93It grows light,\'94 Stilgar hissed. \'93We like it not, your exposing yourself, Muad'Dib. Let us go back into the rocks now.\'94 
\par \'93I'm perfectly safe here,\'94 Paul said.
\par \'93That ship mounts projectile weapons,\'94 Gurney said.
\par \'93They believe us protected by shields,\'94 Paul said. \'93They wouldn't waste a shot on an unidentified trio even if they saw us.\'94 
\par Paul swung the telescope to scan the far wall 
of the basin, seeing the pockmarked cliffs, the slides that marked the tombs of so many of his father's troopers. And he had a momentary sense of the fitness of things that the shades of those men should look down on this moment. The Harkonnen forts and t
owns across the shielded lands lay in Fremen hands or cut away from their source like stalks severed from a plant and left to wither. Only this basin and its city remained to the enemy.
\par \'93They might try a sortie by \lquote thopter,\'94 Stilgar said. \'93If they see us.\'94
\par \'93Let them,\'94 Paul said. \'93We've \lquote thopters to burn today\'85 and we know a storm is coming.\'94
\par He swung the telescope to the far side of the Arrakeen landing field now, to the Harkonnen frigates lined up there with a CHOAM Company banner waving gently from its sta
ff on the ground beneath them. And he thought of the desperation that had forced the Guild to permit these two groups to land while all the others were held in reserve. The Guild was like a man testing the sand with his toe to gauge its temperature before
 erecting a tent.
\par \'93Is there anything new to see from here?\'94 Gurney asked. \'93We should be getting under cover. The storm is coming.\'94 
\par Paul returned his attention on the giant hutment. \'93They've even brought their women,\'94 he said. \'93And lackeys and servants. Ah-h-h, my dear Emperor, how confident you are.\'94
\par \'93Men are coming up the secret way,\'94 Stilgar said. \'93It may be Otheym and Korba returning.\'94 
\par \'93All right, Stil,\'94 Paul said. \'93We'll go back.\'94 
\par But he took one final look around through the telescope \endash  studying the 
plain with its tall ships, the gleaming metal hutment, the silent city, the frigates of the Harkonnen mercenaries. Then he slid backward around a scarp of rock. His place at the telescope was taken by a Fedaykin guardsman.
\par Paul emerged into a shallow depre
ssion in the Shield Wall's surface. It was a place about thirty meters in diameter and some three meters deep, a natural feature of the rock that the Fremen had hidden beneath a translucent camouflage cover. Communications equipment was clustered around a
 hole in the wall to the right. Fedaykin guards deployed through the depression waited for Muad'Dib's command to attack.
\par Two men emerged from the hole by the communications equipment, spoke to the guards there.
\par Paul glanced at Stilgar, nodded in the direction of the two men. \'93Get their report, Stil.\'94 
\par Stilgar moved to obey.
\par Paul crouched with his back to the rock, stretching his muscles, straightened. He saw Stilgar sending the two men back into that dark hole in the rock, thought about the long climb down that narrow man-made tunnel to the floor of the basin. 
\par Stilgar crossed to Paul.
\par \'93What was so important that they couldn't send a cielago with the message?\'94 Paul asked.
\par \'93They're saving their birds for the battle,\'94 Stilgar said. He glanced at the communications equipment, back to Paul. \'93Even with a tight beam, it is wrong to use those things, Muad'Dib. They can find you by taking a bearing on its emission.\'94 

\par \'93They'll soon be too busy to find me,\'94 Paul said. \'93What did the men report?\'94
\par \'93Our pet Sardaukar have been released near Old Gap low on the rim and are on their way to their master. The rocket launchers and other projectile weapons are in place. The people are deployed as you ordered. It was all routine.\'94
\par Paul glanced across the shallow bowl, studying his men in the filtered light admitted by the camouflage cover. He felt time creeping like an insect working its way across an exposed rock.
\par \'93It'll take our Sardaukar a little time afoot before they can signal a troop carrier,\'94 Paul said. 
\par \'93They are being watched?\'94 
\par \'93They are being watched,\'94 Stilgar said.
\par Beside Paul, Gurney Halleck cleared his throat. \'93Hadn't we best be getting to a place of safety?\'94
\par \'93There is no such place,\'94 Paul said. \'93Is the weather report still favorable?\'94
\par \'93A great grandmother of a storm coming,\'94 Stilgar said. \'93Can you not feel it, Muad'Dib?\'94
\par \'93The air does feel chancy,\'94 Paul agreed. \'93But I like the certainty of poling the weather.\'94
\par \'93The storm'll be here in the hour,\'94 Stilgar said. He nodded toward the gap that looked out on the Emperor's hutment and the Harkonnen frigates. \'93They know it there, too. Not a \lquote 
thopter in the sky. Everything pulled in and tied down. They've had a report on the weather from their friends in space.\'94 
\par \'93Any more probing sorties?\'94 Paul asked.
\par \'93Nothing since the landing last night,\'94 Stilgar said. \'93They know we're here. I think now they wait to choose their own time.\'94 
\par \'93We choose the time,\'94 Paul said.
\par Gurney glanced upward, growled: \'93If they let us.\'94 
\par \'93That fleet'll stay in space,\'94 Paul said. 
\par Gurney shook his head.
\par \'93They have no choice,\'94 Paul said. \'93We can destroy the spice. The Guild dares not risk that.\'94 
\par \'93Desperate people are the most dangerous,\'94 Gurney said. 
\par \'93Are we not desperate?\'94 Stilgar asked. 
\par Gurney scowled at him.
\par \'93You haven't lived with the Fremen dream,\'94 Paul cautioned. \'93Stil is thinking of all the water we've spent on bribes, the years of waiting we've added before Arrakis can bloom. He's not \endash \'94 
\par \'93Arrrgh,\'94 Gurney scowled.
\par \'93Why's he so gloomy?\'94 Stilgar asked.
\par \'93He's always gloomy before a battle,\'94 Paul said. \'93It's the only form of good humor Gurney allows himself.\'94
\par A slow, wolfish grin spread across Gurney's face, the teeth showing white above the chip cup of his stillsuit. \'93It glooms me much to think on all the poor Harkonnen souls we'll dispatch unshriven,\'94 he said.
\par Stilgar chuckled. \'93He talks like a Fedaykin.\'94
\par \'93Gurney was born a death commando,\'94 Paul said. And he thought: Yes, let them occupy their minds with small talk be fore we test ourselves against that force on the plain. He looked to the gap in the rock 
wall and back to Gurney, found that the troubadour-warrior had resumed a brooding scowl.
\par \'93Worry saps the strength,\'94 Paul murmured. \'93You told me that once, Gurney.\'94
\par \'93My Duke,\'94 Gurney said, \'93my chief worry is the atomics. If you use them to blast a hole in the Shield Wall\'85 \'94 
\par \'93Those people up there won't use atomics against us,\'94 Paul said. \'93They don't dare\'85 and for the same reason that they cannot risk our destroying the source of the spice.\'94 
\par \'93But the injunction against \endash \'94
\par \'93The injunction!\'94 Paul barked. \'93It's fear, not the injunction that keeps the Houses from hurling atomics against each other. The language of the Great Convention is clear enough: \lquote 
Use of atomics against humans shall be cause for planetary obliteration.\rquote  We're going to blast the Shield Wall, not humans.\'94 
\par \'93It's too fine a point,\'94 Gurney said.
\par \'93The hair-splitters up there will welcome any point,\'94 Paul said. \'93Let's talk no more about it.\'94
\par He turned away, wishing he actually felt that confident. Presently, he said: \'93What about the city people? Are they in position yet?\'94 
\par \'93Yes,\'94 Stilgar muttered.
\par Paul looked at him. \'93What's eating you?\'94
\par \'93I never knew the city man could be trusted completely,\'94 Stilgar said.
\par \'93I was a city man myself once,\'94 Paul said.
\par Stilgar stiffened. His face grew dark with blood. \'93Muad'Dib knows I did not mean \endash \'94
\par \'93I know what you meant, Stil. But the test of a man isn't what you think he'll do. It's what he actually does. These city people have Fremen blood. It's just that they haven't yet learned how to escape their bondage. We'll teach them.\'94
\par Stilgar nodded, spoke in a rueful tone: \'93The habits of a lifetime, Muad'Dib. On the Funeral Plain we learned to despise the men of the communities.\'94
\par Paul glanced at Gurney, saw him studying Stilgar. \'93Tell us, Gurney, why were the city folk down there driven from their homes by the Sardaukar?\'94
\par \'93An old trick, my Duke. They thought to burden us with refugees.\'94
\par \'93It's been so long since guerrillas were effective that the mighty have forgotten how to fight them,\'94 Paul said. \'93The Sardaukar have play
ed into our hands. They grabbed some city women for their sport, decorated their battle standards with the heads of the men who objected. And they've built up a fever of hate among people who otherwise would've looked on the coming battle as no more than 
a great inconvenience\'85 and the possibility of exchanging one set of masters for another. The Sardaukar recruit for us, Stilgar.\'94 
\par \'93The city people do seem eager,\'94 Stilgar said.
\par \'93Their hate is fresh and clear,\'94 Paul said. \'93That's why we use them as shock troops.\'94 
\par \'93The slaughter among them will be fearful,\'94 Gurney said. 
\par Stilgar nodded agreement.
\par \'93They were told the odds,\'94 Paul said. \'93They know every Sardaukar they kill will be one less for us. You see, gentlemen, they have something to die for. They've discovered they're a people. They're awakening.\'94
\par A muttered exclamation came from the watcher at the telescope. Paul moved to the rock slit, asked: \'93What is it out there?\'94
\par \'93A great commotion, Muad'Dib,\'94 the watcher hissed. \'93At that monstrous metal tent. A surface car came from Rimwall West and it was like a hawk into a nest of rock partridge.\'94 
\par \'93Our captive Sardaukar have arrived,\'94 Paul said.
\par \'93They've a shield around the entire landing field now,\'94 the watcher said. \'93I can see the air dancing even to the edge of the storage yard where they kept the spice.\'94
\par \'93Now they know who it is they fight,\'94 Gurney said. \'93Let the Harkonnen beasts tremble and fret themselves that an Atreides yet lives!\'94
\par Paul spoke to the Fedaykin at the telescope. \'93Watch the flagpole atop the Emperor's ship. If my flag is raised there \endash \'94 
\par \'93It will not be,\'94 Gurney said.
\par Paul saw the puzzled frown on Stilgar's face, said: \'93If the Emperor recognized my claim, he'll signal by restoring the Atreides flag to Arrakis. We'll use the second plan then, move
 only against the Harkonnens. The Sardaukar will stand aside and let us settle the issue between ourselves.\'94
\par \'93I've no experience with these offworld things,\'94 Stilgar said. \'93I've heard of them, but it seems unlikely the \endash \'94 
\par \'93You don't need experience to know what they'll do,\'94 Gurney said.
\par \'93They're sending a new flag up on the tall ship,\'94 the watcher said. \'93The flag is yellow\'85 with a black and red circle in the center.\'94
\par \'93There's a subtle piece of business,\'94 Paul said. \'93The CHOAM Company flag.\'94
\par \'93It's the same as the flag at the other ships,\'94 the Fedaykin guard said.
\par \'93I don't understand,\'94 Stilgar said.
\par \'93A subtle piece of business indeed,\'94 Gurney said. \'93Had he sent up the Atreides banner, he'd have had to live by what that meant. Too many observers about. He could've signaled with the Harkonnen flag on his staff \endash 
 a flat declaration that'd have been. But, no \endash  he sends up the CHOAM rag. He's telling the people up there\'85 \'94 Gurney pointed toward space. \'93\'85 where the profit is. He's saying he doesn't care if it's an Atreides here or not.\'94 
\par \'93How long till the storm strikes the Shield Wall?\'94 Paul asked.
\par Stilgar turned away, consulted one of the Fedaykin in the bowl. Presently, he returned, said: \'93Very soon, Muad'Dib. Sooner than we expected. It's a great-great-grandmother of a storm\'85 perhaps even more than you wished.\'94
\par \'93It's my storm,\'94 Paul said, and saw the silent awe on the faces of the Fedaykin who heard him. \'93Though it shook the entire world it could not be more than I wished. Will it strike the Shield Wall full on?\'94 
\par \'93Close enough to make no difference,\'94 Stilgar said.
\par A courier crossed from the hole that led down into the basin, said: \'93The Sardaukar and Harkonnen patrols are pulling back, Muad'Dib.\'94
\par \'93They expect the storm to spill too much sand into the basin for good visibility,\'94 Stilgar Said. \'93They think we'll be in the same fix.\'94
\par \'93Tell our gunners to set their sights well before visibility drops,\'94 Paul said. \'93They must knock the nose off every one of those ships as soon as the storm has destroyed the shields.\'94 He st
epped to the wall of the bowl, pulled back a fold of the camouflage cover and looked up at the sky. The horsetail twistings of blow sand could be seen against the dark of the sky. Paul restored the cover, said: \'93Start sending our men down, Stil.\'94 

\par \'93Will you not go with us?\'94 Stilgar asked. 
\par \'93I'll wait here a bit with the Fedaykin,\'94 Paul said.
\par Stilgar gave a knowing shrug toward Gurney, moved to the hole in the rock wall, was lost in its shadows.
\par \'93The trigger that blasts the Shield Wall aside, that I leave in your hands, Gurney,\'94 Paul said. \'93You will do it?\'94 
\par \'93I'll do it.\'94
\par Paul gestured to a Fedaykin lieutenant, said: \'93Otheym, start moving the check patrols out of the blast area. They must be out of there before the storm strikes.\'94 
\par The man bowed, followed Stilgar.
\par Gurney leaned in to the rock slit, spoke to the man at the telescope: \'93Keep your attention on the south wall. It'll be completely undefended until we blow it.\'94
\par \'93Dispatch a cielago with a time signal,\'94 Paul ordered.
\par \'93Some ground cars are moving toward the south wall,\'94 the man at the telescope said. \'93Some are using projectile weapons, testing. Our people are using body shields as you commanded. The ground cars have stopped.\'94
\par In the abrupt silence, Paul heard the wind devils playing overhead \endash  the front of the storm. Sand began to drift down into their bowl through gaps in the cover. A burst of wind caught the cover, whipped it away.
\par Paul motioned his Fedaykin to take shelter, crossed to the men at the communications equipment near the tunnel mouth. Gurney stayed beside him. Paul crouched over the signalmen.
\par One said: \'93A great-great-great grandmother of a storm, Muad'Dib.\'94
\par Paul glanced up at the darkening sky, said: \'93Gurney, have the south wall observers pulled out.\'94 He had to repeat his order, shouting above the growing noise of the storm. 
\par Gurney turned to obey.
\par Paul fastened his face filter, tightened the stillsuit hood. 
\par Gurney returned.
\par Paul touched his shoulder, pointed to the blast trigger set into the tunnel mouth beyond the signalmen. Gurney went into the tunnel, stopped there, one hand at the trigger, his gaze on Paul.
\par \'93We are getting no messages,\'94 the signalman beside Paul said. \'93Much static.\'94
\par Paul nodded, kept his eye on the time-standard dial in front of the signalman. Presently, Paul looked at Gurney, raised a hand, returned his attention to the dial. The time counter crawled around its final circuit.
\par \'93Now!\'94 Paul shouted, and dropped his hand. 
\par Gurney depressed the blast trigger.
\par It seemed that a full second passed before they felt the ground beneath them ripple and shake. A rumbling sound was added to the storm's roar.
\par The Fedaykin watcher from the telescope appeared beside Paul, the telescope clutched under one arm. \'93The Shield Wall is breached, Muad'Dib!\'94 he shouted. \'93The storm is on them and our gunners already are firing.\'94
\par Paul thought of the storm sweeping across the basin, the static charge within the wall of sand that destroyed every shield barrier in the enemy camp.
\par \'93The storm!\'94 someone shouted. \'93We must get under cover, Muad'Dib!\'94
\par Paul came to his senses, feeling the sand needles sting his exposed cheeks. We are committed, he thought. He put an arm around the signalman's shoulder, said: \'93Leave the equipment! There's more in the tunnel.\'94
 He felt himself being pulled away, Fedaykin pressed around him to protect him. They squeezed into the tunnel mouth, feeling its comparative silence, turned a corner into a small chamber with glowglobes overhead and another tunnel opening beyond.
\par Another signalman sat there at his equipment. 
\par \'93Much static,\'94 the man said.
\par A swirl of sand filled the air around them.
\par \'93Seal off this tunnel!\'94 Paul shouted. A sudden pressure of stillness showed that his command had been obeyed. \'93Is the way down to the basin still open?\'94 Paul asked.
\par A Fedaykin went to look, returned, said: \'93The explosion caused a little rock to fall, but the engineers say it is still open. They're cleaning up with lasbeams.\'94
\par \'93Tell them to use their hands!\'94 Paul barked. \'93There are shields active down there?\'94
\par \'93They are being careful, Muad'Dib,\'94 the man said, but he turned to obey.
\par The signalmen from outside pressed past them carrying their equipment.
\par \'93I told those men to leave their equipment!\'94 Paul said.
\par \'93Fremen do not like to abandon equipment, Muad'Dib,\'94 one of his Fedaykin chided.
\par \'93Men are more important than equipment now,\'94 Paul said. \'93We'll have more equipment than we can use soon or have no need for any equipment.\'94
\par Gurney Halleck came up beside him, said: \'93I heard them say the way down is open. We're very close to the surface here, m'Lord, should the Harkonnens try to retaliate in kind.\'94
\par \'93They're in no position to retaliate,\'94 Paul said. \'93They're just now finding out that they have no shields and are unable to get off Arrakis.\'94
\par \'93The new command post is all prepared, though, m'Lord,\'94 Gurney said.
\par \'93They've no need of me in the command post yet,\'94 Paul said. \'93The plan would go ahead without me. We must wait for the \endash \'94 
\par \'93I'm getting a message, Muad'Dib,\'94 said the signalman at the communications equipment. The man shook his head, pressed a receiver phone against his ear. \'93Much static!\'94
 He began scribbling on a pad in front of him, shaking his head waiting, writing\'85 waiting.
\par Paul crossed to the signalman's side. The Fedaykin stepped back, giving him room. He looked down at what the man had written, read:
\par \'93Raid\'85 on Sietch Tabr\'85 captives\'85 Alia (blank) families of (blank) dead are\'85 they (blank) son of Muad'Dib\'85 \'94 
\par Again, the signalman shook his head. 
\par Paul looked up to see Gurney staring at him.
\par \'93The message is garbled,\'94 Gurney said. \'93The static. You don't know that\'85 \'94
\par \'93My son is dead,\'94 Paul said, and knew as he spoke that it was true. \'93My son is dead\'85 and Alia is a captive\'85 hostage.\'94
 He felt emptied, a shell without emotions. Everything he touched brought death and grief. And it was like a disease that could spread across the universe.
\par He could feel the old-man wisdom, the accumulation out of the experiences from countless possible lives. Something seemed to chuckle and rub its hands within him.
\par And Paul thought: How little the universe knows about the nature of real cruelty!
\par 
\par 
\par And Muad'Dib stood before them, and he said: \'93Though we deem the captive dead, yet does she live. For her seed is my seed and her voice is my voice. And she sees unto the farthest reaches of possibility. Yea, unto the vale of the unknowable
 does she see because of me.\'94
\par -from \'93Arrakis Awakening\'94 by the Princess Irulan
\par 
\par The Baron Vladimir Harkonnen stood with eyes downcast in the Imperial audience chamber, the oval selamlik within the Padishah Emperor's hutment. With covert glances, the Baron had studied the metal-walled room and its occupants \endash 
 the noukkers, the pages, the guards, the troop of House Sardaukar drawn up around the walls, standing at ease there beneath the bloody and tattered captured battle flags that were the room's only decoration.
\par Voices sounded from the right of the chamber, echoing out of a high passage: \'93Make way! Make way for the Royal Person!\'94 
\par The Padishah Emperor Shaddam IV came out of the passage into the audience chamber followed by his suite. He stood waiting while his throne was brought, ignoring the Baron, seemingly ignoring every person in the room.
\par The Baron found that he could not ignore the Royal Person, and studied the Emperor for a sign, any clue to the purpose of this audience. The Emperor stood poised, waiting \endash 
 a slim, elegant figure in a gray Sardaukar uniform with silver and gold trim. His thin face and cold eyes reminded the Baron of the Duke Leto long dead. There was that same look of the predatory bird. But the Emperor's hair was red, not black, and mos
t of that hair was concealed by a Burseg's ebon helmet with the Imperial crest in gold upon its crown.
\par Pages brought the throne. It was a massive chair carved from a single piece of Hagal quartz \endash  blue-green translucency shot through with streaks of yellow fire. They placed it on the dais and the Emperor mounted, seated himself.
\par An old woman in a black aba robe with hood drawn down over her forehead detached herself from the Emperor's suite, took up station behind the throne, one scrawny hand resting on the quartz back. Her face peered out of the hood like a witch caricature 
\endash  sunken cheeks and eyes, an overlong nose, skin mottled and with protruding veins.
\par The Baron stilled his trembling at sight of her. The presence of the Reverend Mother Gains Helen Mohia
m, the Emperor's Truthsayer, betrayed the importance of this audience. The Baron looked away from her, studied the suite for a clue. There were two of the Guild agents, one tall and fat, one short and fat, both with bland gray eyes. And among the lackeys 
s
tood one of the Emperor's daughters, the Princess Irulan, a woman they said was being trained in the deepest of the Bene Gesserit ways, destined to be a Reverend Mother. She was tall, blonde, face of chiseled beauty, green eyes that looked past and throug
h him. 
\par \'93My dear Baron.\'94
\par The Emperor had deigned to notice him. The voice was baritone and with exquisite control. It managed to dismiss him while greeting him.
\par The Baron bowed low, advanced to the required position ten paces from the dais. \'93I came at your summons, Majesty.\'94 
\par \'93Summons!\'94 the old witch cackled.
\par \'93Now, Reverend Mother,\'94 the Emperor chided, but he smiled at the Baron's discomfiture, said: \'93First, you will tell me where you've sent your minion, Thufir Hawat.\'94
\par The Baron darted his gaze left and right, reviled himself for coming here without his own guards, not that they'd be much use against Sardaukar. Still\'85
\par \'93Well?\'94 the Emperor said.
\par \'93He has been gone these five days, Majesty.\'94 The Baron shot a glance at the Guild agents, back to the Emperor. \'93He was to land at a smuggler base and attempt infiltrating the camp of the Fremen fanatic, this Muad'Dib.\'94 
\par \'93Incredible!\'94 the Emperor said.
\par One of the witch's clawlike hands tapped the Emperor's shoulder. She leaned forward, whispered in his ear.
\par The Emperor nodded, said: \'93Five days, Baron. Tell me, why aren't you worried about his absence?\'94
\par \'93But I am worried, Majesty!\'94
\par The Emperor continued to stare at him, waiting. The Reverend Mother emitted a cackling laugh.
\par \'93What I mean, Majesty,\'94 the Baron said, \'93is that Hawat will be dead within another few hours, anyway.\'94 And he explained about the latent poison and need for an antidote.
\par \'93How clever of you, Baron,\'94 the Emperor said. \'93And where are your nephews, Rabban and the young Feyd-Rautha?\'94 
\par \'93The storm comes, Majesty. I sent them to inspect our perimeter lest the Fremen attack under cover of the sand.\'94
\par \'93Perimeter,\'94 the Emperor said. The word came out as though it puckered his mouth. \'93The storm won't be much here in the basin, and that Fremen rabble won't attack while I'm here with five legions of Sardaukar.\'94
\par \'93Surely not, Majesty,\'94 the Baron said, \'93But error on the side of caution cannot be censured.\'94
\par \'93Ah-h-h-h,\'94 the Emperor said. \'93Censure. Then I'm not to speak of how much time this Arrakis nonsense has taken from me? Nor the CHOAM Company profits pouring down this rat hole? Nor the court functions and affairs of state I've had to delay 
\endash  even cancel \endash  because of this stupid affair?\'94
\par The Baron lowered his gaze, frightened by the Imperial anger. The delicacy of his posi
tion here, alone and dependent upon the Convention and the dictum familia of the Great Houses, fretted him. Does he mean to kill me? the Baron asked himself. He couldn't! Not with the other Great Houses waiting up there, aching for any excuse to gain from
 this upset on Arrakis. 
\par \'93Have you taken hostages?\'94 the Emperor asked.
\par \'93It's useless, Majesty,\'94 the Baron said. \'93These mad Fremen hold a burial ceremony for every captive and act as though such a one were already dead.\'94 
\par \'93So?\'94 the Emperor said.
\par And the Baro
n waited, glancing left and right at the metal walls of the selamlik, thinking of the monstrous fanmetal tent around him. Such unlimited wealth it represented that even the Baron was awed. He brings pages, the Baron thought, and useless court lackeys, his
 women and their companions \endash  hair-dressers, designers, everything\'85 all the fringe parasites of the Court. All here \endash  fawning, slyly plotting, \'93roughing it\'94 with the Emperor\'85
 here to watch him put an end to this affair, to make epigrams over the battles and idolize the wounded.
\par \'93Perhaps you've never sought the right kind of hostages,\'94 the Emperor said.
\par He knows something, the Baron thought. Fear sat like a stone in his stomach until he could hardly bear the thought of eating. Yet, the feeling was like hunger
, and he poised himself several times in his suspensors on the point of ordering food brought to him. But there was no one here to obey his summons.
\par \'93Do you have any idea who this Muad'Dib could be?\'94 the Emperor asked.
\par \'93One of the Umma, surely,\'94 the Baron said. \'93A Fremen fanatic, a religious adventurer. They crop up regularly on the fringes of civilization. Your Majesty knows this.\'94
\par The Emperor glanced at his Truthsayer, turned back to scowl at the Baron. \'93And you have no other knowledge of this Muad'Dib?\'94 
\par \'93A madman,\'94 the Baron said. \'93But all Fremen are a little mad.\'94 
\par \'93Mad?\'94
\par \'93His people scream his name as they leap into battle. The women throw their babies at us and hurl themselves onto our knives to open a wedge for their men to attack us. They have no\'85 no\'85 decency!\'94
\par \'93As bad as that,\'94 the Emperor murmured, and his tone of derision did not escape the Baron. \'93Tell me, my dear Baron, have you investigated the southern polar regions of Arrakis?\'94 
\par The Baron stared up at the Emperor, shocked by the change of subject. \'93But\'85 well, you know, Your Majesty, the entire region is uninhabitable, open to wind and worm. There's not even any spice in those latitudes.\'94
\par \'93You've had no reports from spice lighters that patches of greenery appear there?\'94
\par \'93There've always been such reports. Some were investigated \endash  long ago. A few plants were seen. Many \lquote thopters were lost. Much too costly, Your Majesty. It's a place where men cannot survive for long.\'94
\par \'93So,\'94 the Emperor said. He snapped his fingers and a door opened at his left be
hind the throne. Through the door came two Sardaukar herding a girl-child who appeared to be about four years old. She wore a black aba, the hood thrown back to reveal the attachments of a stillsuit hanging free at her throat. Her eyes were Fremen blue, s
taring out of a soft, round face. She appeared completely unafraid and there was a look to her stare that made the Baron feel uneasy for no reason he could explain.
\par Even the old Bene Gesserit Truthsayer drew back as the child passed and made a warding sign in her direction. The old witch obviously was shaken by the child's presence.
\par The Emperor cleared his throat to speak, but the child spoke first \endash  a thin voice with traces of a soft-palate lisp, but clear nonetheless. \'93So here he is,\'94 she said. She advanced to the edge of the dais. \'93He doesn't appear much, does he 
\endash  one frightened old fat man too weak to support his own flesh without the help of suspensors.\'94
\par It was such a totally unexpected statement from the mouth of a child that the Baron stared at her, speechless in spite of his anger. Is it a midget? he asked himself.
\par \'93My dear Baron,\'94 the Emperor said, \'93become acquainted with the sister of Muad'Dib.\'94
\par \'93The sist\'85 \'94The Baron shifted his attention to the Emperor. \'93I do not understand.\'94
\par \'93I, too, sometimes err on the side of caution,\'94 the Emperor said. \'93It has been reported to me that your uninhabited south polar regions exhibit evidence of human activity.\'94
\par \'93But that's impossible!\'94 the Baron protested. \'93The worms\'85 there's sand clear to the\'85 \'94
\par \'93These people seem able to avoid the worms,\'94 the Emperor said.
\par The child sat down on the dais beside the throne, dangled her feet over the edge, kicking them. There was such an air of sureness in the way she appraised her surroundings.
\par The Baron stared at the kicking feet, the way they moved the black robe, the wink of sandals beneath the fabric.
\par \'93Unfortunately,\'94 the Emperor said, \'93I only sent in five troop carriers with a light attack force to pick up prisoners for questioning. We barely got away with three prisoners and on
e carrier. Mind you, Baron, my Sardaukar were almost overwhelmed by a force composed mostly of women, children, and old men. This child here was in command of one of the attacking groups.\'94
\par \'93You see, Your Majesty!\'94 the Baron said. \'93You see how they are!\'94
\par \'93I allowed myself to be captured,\'94 the child said. \'93I did not want to face my brother and have to tell him that his son had been killed.\'94
\par \'93Only a handful of our men got away,\'94 the Emperor said. \'93Got away! You hear that?\'94
\par \'93We'd have had them, too,\'94 the child said, \'93except for the flames.\'94
\par \'93My Sardaukar used the attitudinal jets on their carrier as flame-throwers,\'94 the Emperor said. \'93A move of desperation and the only thing that got them away with their three prisoners. Mark that, my dear Baron: Sardaukar force
d to retreat in confusion from women and children and old men!\'94
\par \'93We must attack in force,\'94 the Baron rasped. \'93We must destroy every last vestige of \endash \'94
\par \'93Silence!\'94 the Emperor roared. He pushed himself forward on his throne. \'93Do not abuse my intelligence any longer. You stand there in your foolish innocence and \endash \'94 
\par \'93Majesty,\'94 the old Truthsayer said.
\par He waved her to silence. \'93You say you don't know about the activity we found, nor the fighting qualities of these superb people!\'94 The Emperor lifted himself half off his throne. \'93What do you take me for, Baron?\'94
\par The Baron took two backward steps, thinking: It was Rabban. He has done this to me. Rabban has\'85 
\par \'93And this fake dispute with Duke Leto,\'94 the Emperor purred, sinking back into his throne. \'93How beautifully you maneuvered it.\'94 
\par \'93Majesty,\'94 the Baron pleaded. \'93What are you \endash \'94 
\par \'93Silence!\'94
\par The old Bene Gesserit put a hand on the Emperor's shoulder, leaned close to whisper in his ear.
\par The child seated on the dais stopped kicking her feet, said: \'93Make him afraid some more, Shaddam. I shouldn't enjoy this, but I find the pleasure impossible to suppress.\'94
\par \'93Quiet, child,\'94 the Emperor said. He leaned forward, put a hand on her head, stared at the Baron. \'93Is it possible, Baron? Could you be as simpleminded as my Truthsayer suggests? Do you not recognize this child, daughter of your ally, Duke Leto?
\'94 
\par \'93My father was never his ally,\'94 the child said. \'93My father is dead and this old Harkonnen beast has never seen me before.\'94 
\par The Baron was reduced to stupefied glaring. When he found his voice it was only to rasp: \'93Who?\'94
\par \'93I am Alia, daughter of Duke Leto and the Lady Jessica, sister of Duke Paul-Muad'Dib,\'94 the child said. She pushed herself off the dais, dropped to the floor of the audience chamber. \'93My brother has promised to h
ave your head atop his battle standard and I think he shall.\'94
\par \'93Be hush, child,\'94 the Emperor said, and he sank back into his throne, hand to chin, studying the Baron.
\par \'93I do not take the Emperor's orders,\'94 Alia said. She turned, looked up at the old Reverend Mother. \'93She knows.\'94 
\par The Emperor glanced up at his Truthsayer. \'93What does she mean?\'94
\par \'93That child is an abomination!\'94 the old woman said. \'93Her mother deserves a punishment greater than anything in history. Death! It cannot come too quickly for that child or for the one who spawned her!\'94 The old woman pointed a finger at Alia. 
\'93Get out of my mind!\'94
\par \'93T-P?\'94 the Emperor whispered. He snapped his attention back to Alia. \'93By the Great Mother!\'94
\par \'93You don't understand. Majesty,\'94 the old woman said. \'93Not telepathy. She's in my mind. She's like the ones before me, the ones who gave me their memories. She stands in my mind! She cannot be there, but she is!\'94
\par \'93What others?\'94 the Emperor demanded. \'93What's this nonsense?\'94
\par The old woman straightened, lowered her pointing hand. \'93
I've said too much, but the fact remains that this child who is not a child must be destroyed. Long were we warned against such a one and how to prevent such a birth, but one of our own has betrayed us.\'94 
\par \'93You babble, old woman,\'94 Alia said. \'93You don't know how it was, yet you rattle on like a purblind fool.\'94 Alia closed her eyes, took a deep breath, and held it.
\par The old Reverend Mother groaned and staggered.
\par Alia opened her eyes. \'93That is how it was,\'94 she said. \'93A cosmic accident\'85 and you played your part in it.\'94
\par The Reverend Mother held out both hands, palms pushing the air toward Alia.
\par \'93What is happening here?\'94 the Emperor demanded. \'93Child, can you truly project your thoughts into the mind of another?\'94 
\par \'93That's not how it is at all,\'94 Alia said. \'93Unless I'm born as you, I cannot think as you.\'94
\par \'93Kill her,\'94 the old woman muttered, and clutched the back of the throne for support. \'93Kill her!\'94 The sunken old eyes glared at Alia.
\par \'93Silence,\'94 the Emperor said, and he studied Alia. \'93Child, can you communicate with your brother?\'94 
\par \'93My brother knows I'm here,\'94 Alia said.
\par \'93Can you tell him to surrender as the price of your life?\'94 
\par Alia smiled up at him with clear innocence. \'93I shall not do that,\'94 she said.
\par The Baron stumbled forward to stand beside Alia. \'93Majesty,\'94 he pleaded, \'93I knew nothing of \endash \'94
\par \'93Interrupt me once more, Baron,\'94 the Emperor said, \'93and you will lose the powers of interruption\'85 forever.\'94 He kept his attention focused on Alia, studying her through slitted lids. \'93You will not, eh? Can you read in my min
d what I'll do if you disobey me?\'94
\par \'93I've already said I cannot read minds,\'94 she said, \'93but one doesn't need telepathy to read your intentions.\'94
\par The Emperor scowled. \'93Child, your cause is hopeless. I have but to rally my forces and reduce this planet to \endash \'94
\par \'93It's not that simple,\'94 Alia said. She looked at the two Guildsmen. \'93Ask them.\'94
\par \'93It is not wise to go against my desires,\'94 the Emperor said. \'93You should not deny me the least thing.\'94
\par \'93My brother comes now,\'94 Alia said. \'93Even an Emperor may tremble before Muad'Dib, for he has the strength of righteousness and heaven smiles upon him.\'94
\par The Emperor surged to his feet. \'93This play has gone far enough. I will take your brother and this planet and grind them to \endash \'94 
\par The room rumbled and shook around them. There came a sudden cascade of sand behind the throne where the hutment was coupled to the Emperor's ship. The abrupt flicker-tightening of skin pressure told of a wide-area shield being activated. 
\par \'93I told you,\'94 Alia said. \'93My brother comes.\'94 
\par The Emperor stood in front of his throne, right hand pressed to right ear, the servo-receiver there chattering its report on the situation. The Baron moved two steps behind Alia. Sardaukar were leaping to positions at the doors.
\par \'93We will fall back into space and reform,\'94 the Emperor said. \'93Baron, my apologies. These madmen are attacking under cover of the storm. We will show them an Emperor's wrath, then.\'94 He pointed at Alia. \'93Give her body to the storm.\'94
\par As he spoke, Alia fled backward, feigning terror: \'93Let the storm have what it can take!\'94 she screamed. And she backed into the Baron's arms.
\par \'93I have her, Majesty!\'94 the Baron shouted. \'93Shall I dispatch her now-eeeeeeeeeeeh!\'94 He hurled her to the floor, clutched his left arm.
\par \'93I'm sorry, Grandfather,\'94 Alia said. \'93You've met the Atreides gom jabbar.\'94 She got to her feet, dropped a dark needle from her hand.
\par The Baron fell back. His eyes bulged as he stared at a red slash on his left palm. \'93You\'85 you\'85 \'94 He rolled sideways in his suspensors, a sagging mass of flesh supported inches off the floor with head lolling and mouth hanging open.
\par \'93These people are insane,\'94 the Emperor snarled. \'93Quick! Into the ship. We'll purge this planet of every\'85 \'94
\par Something sparkled to his left. A roll of ball lightning bounced away from the wall there, crackled as it touched the metal floor. The smell of burned insulation swept through the selamlik.
\par \'93The shield!\'94 one of the Sardaukar officers shouted. \'93The outer shield is down! They\'85 \'94
\par His words were drowned in a metallic roaring as the shipwall behind the Emperor trembled and rocked.
\par \'93They've shot the nose off our ship!\'94 someone called.
\par Dust boiled through the room. Under its cover, Alia leaped up, ran toward the outer door.
\par The Emperor whirled, motioned his people into an emergency door that swung open in the ship's side behind the throne. He flashed a hand signal to a Sardaukar officer leaping through the dust haze. \'93We will make our stand here!\'94 the Emperor ordered.

\par Another crash shook the hutment. The double doors banged open at the far side of the chamber admitting wind-blown sand and the sound of shouting. A small, black-robed figure could be seen momentarily against the light \endash 
 Alia darting out to find a knife and, as befitted her Fremen training, to kill Harkonnen and Sardaukar wounded. House Sardaukar 
charged through a greened yellow haze toward the opening, weapons ready, forming an arc there to protect the Emperor's retreat.
\par \'93Save yourself, Sire!\'94 a Sardaukar officer shouted. \'93Into the ship!\'94
\par But the Emperor stood alone now on his dais pointing toward
 the doors. A forty-meter section of the hutment had been blasted away there and the selamlik's doors opened now onto drifting sand. A dust cloud hung low over the outside world blowing from pastel distances. Static lightning crackled from the cloud and t
he spark flashes of shields being shorted out by the storm's charge could be seen through the haze. The plain surged with figures in combat \endash  Sardaukar and leaping gyrating robed men who seemed to come down out of the storm.
\par All this was as a frame for the target of the Emperor's pointing hand.
\par Out of the sand haze came an orderly mass of flashing shapes \endash  great rising curves with crystal spokes that resolved into the gaping mouths of sandworms, a massed wall of them, each with troops of Fremen riding to the
 attack. They came in a hissing wedge, robes whipping in the wind as they cut through the melee on the plain.
\par Onward toward the Emperor's hutment they came while the House Sardaukar stood awed for the first time in their history by an onslaught their minds found difficult to accept.
\par But the figures leaping from the worm backs were men, and the blades flashing in that ominous yellow light were a thing the Sardaukar had been trained to face. They threw themselves into combat. And it was man to man on the plai
n of Arrakeen while a picked Sardaukar bodyguard pressed the Emperor back into the ship, sealed the door on him, and prepared to die at that door as part of his shield.
\par In the shock of comparative silence within the ship, the Emperor stared at the wide-eye
d faces of his suite, seeing his oldest daughter with the flush of exertion on her cheeks, the old Truthsayer standing like a black shadow with her hood pulled about her face, finding at last the faces he sought \endash 
 the two Guildsmen. They wore the Guild gray, unadorned, and it seemed to fit the calm they maintained despite the high emotions around them.
\par The taller of the two, though, held a hand to his left eye. As the Emperor watched, someone jostled the Guildsman's arm, the hand moved, and the eye was reve
aled. The man had lost one of his masking contact lenses, and the eye stared out a total blue so dark as to be almost black.
\par The smaller of the pair elbowed his way a step nearer the Emperor, said: \'93We cannot know how it will go.\'94 And the taller companion, hand restored to eye, added in a cold voice: \'93But this Muad'Dib cannot know, either.\'94
\par The words shocked the Emperor out of his daze. He checked the scorn on his tongue by a visible effort because it did not take a Guild navigator's single-minded focus on 
the main chance to see the immediate future out on that plain. Were these two so dependent upon their faculty that they had lost the use of their eyes and their reason? he wondered.
\par \'93Reverend Mother,\'94 he said, \'93we must devise a plan.\'94 
\par She pulled the hood from her face, met his gaze with an unblinking stare. The look that passed between them carried complete understanding. They had one weapon left and both knew it: treachery.
\par \'93Summon Count Fenring from his quarters,\'94 the Reverend Mother said.
\par The Padishah Emperor nodded, waved for one of his aides to obey that command.
\par 
\par 
\par He was warrior and mystic, ogre and saint, the fox and the innocent, chivalrous, ruthless, less than a god, more than a man. There is no measuring Muad'Dib's motives by ordinary standards. I
n the moment of his triumph, he saw the death prepared for him, yet he accepted the treachery. Can you say he did this out of a sense of justice? Whose justice, then? Remember, we speak now of the Muad'Dib who ordered battle drums made from his enemies
\rquote  skins, the Muad'Dib who denied the conventions of his ducal past with a wave of the hand, saying merely: \'93I am the Kwisatz Haderach. That is reason enough. \'93
\par -from \'93Arrakis Awakening\'94 by the Princess Irulan
\par 
\par It was to the Arrakeen governor's mansion, the old
 Residency the Atreides had first occupied on Dune, that they escorted Paul-Muad'Dib on the evening of his victory. The building stood as Rabban had restored it, virtually untouched by the fighting although there had been looting by townspeople. Some of t
he furnishings in the main hall had been overturned or smashed.
\par Paul strode through the main entrance with Gurney Halleck and Stilgar a pace behind. Their escort fanned out into the Great Hall, straightening the place and clearing an area for Muad'Dib. One 
squad began investigating that no sly trap had been planted here.
\par \'93I remember the day we first came here with your father,\'94 Gurney said. He glanced around at the beams and the high, slitted windows. \'93I didn't like this place then and I like it less now. One of our caves would be safer.\'94
\par \'93Spoken like a true Fremen,\'94 Stilgar said, and he marked the cold smile that his words brought to Muad'Dib's lips. \'93Will you reconsider, Muad'Dib?\'94
\par \'93This place is a symbol,\'94 Paul said. \'93Rabban lived here. By occupying this place I seal my victory for all to understand. Send men through the building. Touch nothing. Just be certain no Harkonnen people or toys remain.\'94
\par \'93As you command,\'94 Stilgar said, and reluctance was heavy in his tone as he turned to obey.
\par Communications men h
urried into the room with their equipment, began setting up near the massive fireplace. The Fremen guard that augmented the surviving Fedaykin took up stations around the room. There was muttering among them, much darting of suspicious glances. This had b
een too long a place of the enemy for them to accept their presence in it casually.
\par \'93Gurney, have an escort bring my mother and Chani,\'94 Paul said. \'93Does Chani know yet about our son?\'94 
\par \'93The message was sent, m'Lord.\'94 
\par \'93Are the makers being taken out of the basin yet?\'94 
\par \'93Yes, m'Lord. The storm's almost spent.\'94 
\par \'93What's the extent of the storm damage?\'94 Paul asked.
\par \'93In the direct path \endash  on the landing field and across the spice storage yards of the plain \endash  extensive damage,\'94 Gurney said. \'93As much from battle as from the storm.\'94 
\par \'93Nothing money won't repair, I presume,\'94 Paul said.
\par \'93Except for the lives, m'Lord,\'94 Gurney said, and there was a tone of reproach in his voice as though to say: \'93When did an Atreides worry first about things when people were at stake?\'94 
\par But Paul could only focus his attention on the inner eye and the gaps visible to him in the time-wall that still lay across his path. Through each gap the jihad raged away down the corridors of the future.
\par He sighed, crossed the hall, seeing a chair agains
t the wall. The chair had once stood in the dining hall and might even have held his own father. At the moment, though, it was only an object to rest his weariness and conceal it from the men. He sat down, pulling his robes around his legs, loosening his 
stillsuit at the neck.
\par \'93The Emperor is still holed up in the remains of his ship,\'94 Gurney said.
\par \'93For now, contain him there,\'94 Paul said. \'93Have they found the Harkonnens yet?\'94 
\par \'93They're still examining the dead.\'94
\par \'93What reply from the ships up there?\'94 He jerked his chin toward the ceiling.
\par \'93No reply yet, m'Lord.\'94
\par Paul sighed, resting against the back of his chair. Presently, he said: \'93Bring me a captive Sardaukar. We must send a message to our Emperor, It's time to discuss terms.\'94 
\par \'93Yes, m'Lord.\'94
\par Gurney turned away, dropped a hand signal to one of the Fedaykin who took up close-guard position beside Paul.
\par \'93Gurney,\'94 Paul whispered. \'93Since we've been rejoined I've yet to hear you produce the proper quotation for the event.\'94 He turned, saw Gurney swallow, saw the sudden grim hardening of the man's jaw.
\par \'93As you wish, m'Lord,\'94 Gurney said. He cleared his throat, rasped: \'93 \lquote And the victory that day was turned into mourning unto all the people: for the people heard say that day how the king was grieved for his son.\rquote  \'93
\par Paul closed his eyes, forcing grief out of his mind, letting it wait as he had once waited to mourn his father. Now, he gave his thoughts over to this day's accumulated discoveries \endash 
 the mixed futures and the hidden presence of Alia within his awareness.
\par Of all the uses of time-vision, this was the strangest. \'93I have breasted the future to place my words where only you can hear them,\'94 Alia had said. \'93Even you cannot do that, my brother. I find it an interesting play. And\'85 oh, yes \endash 
 I've killed our grandfather, the demented old Baron. He had very little pain.\'94 
\par Silence. His time sense had seen her withdrawal. 
\par \'93Muad'Dib.\'94
\par Paul opened his eyes to see Stilgar's black-bearded visage above him, the dark eyes glaring with battle light.
\par \'93You've found the body of the old Baron,\'94 Paul said.
\par A hush of the person settled over Stilgar. \'93How could you know?\'94 he whispered. \'93We just found the body in that great pile of metal the Emperor built.\'94
\par Paul ignored the question, seeing Gurney return accompanied by two Fremen who supported a captive Sardaukar.
\par \'93Here's one of them, m'Lord,\'94 Gurney said. He signed to the guard to hold the captive five paces in front of Paul.
\par The Sardaukar's eyes, Paul noted, carried a glazed expression of shock. A blue bruise stretched from the bridge
 of his nose to the corner of his mouth. He was of the blond, chisel-featured caste, the look that seemed synonymous with rank among the Sardaukar, yet there were no insignia on his torn uniform except the gold buttons with the Imperial crest and the tatt
ered braid of his trousers. 
\par \'93I think this one's an officer, m'Lord,\'94 Gurney said.
\par Paul nodded, said: \'93I am the Duke Paul Atreides. Do you understand that, man?\'94 
\par The Sardaukar stared at him unmoving.
\par \'93Speak up,\'94 Paul said, \'93or your Emperor may die.\'94 
\par The man blinked, swallowed. 
\par \'93Who am I?\'94 Paul demanded.
\par \'93You are the Duke Paul Atreides,\'94 the man husked.
\par He seemed too submissive to Paul, but then the Sardaukar had never been prepared for such happenings as this day. They'd never known anything but victory w
hich, Paul realized, could be a weakness in itself. He put that thought aside for later consideration in his own training program.
\par \'93I have a message for you to carry to the Emperor,\'94 Paul said. And he couched his words in the ancient formula: \'93I, a Duke of
 a Great House, an Imperial Kinsman, give my word of bond under the Convention. If the Emperor and his people lay down their arms and come to me here I will guard their lives with my own.\'94
 Paul held up his left hand with the ducal signet for the Sardaukar to see. \'93I swear it by this.\'94 
\par The man wet his lips with his tongue, glanced at Gurney.
\par \'93Yes,\'94 Paul said. \'93Who but an Atreides could command the allegiance of Gurney Halleck.\'94 
\par \'93I will carry the message,\'94 the Sardaukar said.
\par \'93Take him to our forward command post and send him in,\'94 Paul said.
\par \'93Yes, m'Lord.\'94 Gurney motioned for the guard to obey, led them out.
\par Paul turned back to Stilgar.
\par \'93Chani and your mother have arrived,\'94 Stilgar said. \'93Chani has asked time to be alone with her grief. The Reverend Mother sought a moment in the weirding room; I know not why.\'94 
\par \'93My mother's sick with longing for a planet she may never see,\'94 Paul said. \'93Where water falls from the sky and plants grow so thickly you cannot walk between them.\'94 
\par \'93Water from the sky,\'94 Stilgar whispered.
\par In that instant, Paul saw how Stilgar had been transformed from the Fremen naib to a creature of the Lisan al-Gaib, a receptacle for awe and obedience. It was a lessening of the man, and Paul felt the ghost-wind of the jihad in it.
\par I have seen a friend become a worshiper, he thought.
\par In a rush of loneliness, Paul glanced around the room, noting how proper and on-review his guards had become in his presence. He sensed the subtle, prideful competition among them \endash  each hoping for notice from Muad'Dib.
\par Muad'Dib from whom all blessings flow, he thought, and it was the bitterest thought of his life. They sense that I must take the throne, he thought. But they cannot know I do it to prevent the jihad. 
\par Stilgar cleared his throat, said: \'93Rabban, too, is dead.\'94 
\par Paul nodded.
\par Guards to the right suddenly snapped aside, standing at attention to open an aisle for Jessica. She wore her black aba and walked with a hint of striding across sand, but Paul noted how this house had restored to her something of what she h
ad once been here \endash  concubine to a ruling duke. Her presence carried some of its old assertiveness.
\par Jessica stopped in front of Paul, looked down at him. She saw his fatigue and how he hid it, but found no compassion for him. It was as though she had been rendered incapable of any emotion for her son.
\par Jessica had entered the Great Hall wondering why the place refused to fit itself snugly in to her memories. It remained a foreign room, as though she had never walked here, never walked here with her beloved L
eto, never confronted a drunken Duncan Idaho here \endash  never, never, never\'85 
\par There should be a word-tension directly opposite to adab, the demanding memory, she thought. There should be a word for memories that deny themselves. 
\par \'93Where is Alia?\'94 she asked.
\par \'93Out doing what any good Fremen child should be doing in such times,\'94 Paul said. \'93She's killing enemy wounded and marking their bodies for the water-recovery teams.\'94 
\par \'93Paul!\'94
\par \'93You must understand that she does this out of kindness,\'94 he said. \'93Isn't it odd how we misunderstand the hidden unity of kindness and cruelty?\'94
\par Jessica glared at her son, shocked by the profound change in him. Was it his child's death did this? she wondered. And she said: \'93The men tell strange stories of you, Paul. They say you've all the powers of the legend \endash 
 nothing can be hidden from you, that you see where others cannot see.\'94 
\par \'93A Bene Gesserit should ask about legends?\'94 he asked.
\par \'93I've had a hand in whatever you are,\'94 she admitted, \'93but you mustn't expect me to \endash \'94
\par \'93How would you like to live billions upon billions of lives?\'94 Paul asked. \'93
There's a fabric of legends for you! Think of all those experiences, the wisdom they'd bring. But wisdom tempers love, doesn't it? And it puts a new shape on hate. How can you tell what's ruthless un
less you've plumbed the depths of both cruelty and kindness? You should fear me, Mother. I am the Kwisatz Haderach.\'94
\par Jessica tried to swallow in a dry throat. Presently, she said; \'93Once you denied to me that you were the Kwisatz Haderach.\'94 
\par Paul shook his head. \'93I can deny nothing any more.\'94 He looked up into her eyes. \'93The Emperor and his people come now. They will be announced any moment. Stand beside me. I wish a clear view of them. My future bride will be among them.\'94 
\par \'93Paul!\'94 Jessica snapped. \'93Don't make the mistake your father made!\'94
\par \'93She's a princess,\'94 Paul said. \'93She's my key to the throne, and that's all she'll ever be. Mistake? You think because I'm what you made me that I cannot feel the need for revenge?\'94 
\par \'93Even on the innocent?\'94 she asked, and she thought: He must not make the mistakes I made.
\par \'93There are no innocent any more,\'94 Paul said.
\par \'93Tell that to Chani,\'94 Jessica said, and gestured toward the passage from the rear of the Residency.
\par Chani entered the Great Hall there, walking between the Fremen guards as though unaware of them. Her hood and stillsuit cap were thrown back, face mask fastened aside. She walked with a fragile uncertainty as she crossed the room to stand beside Jessica.

\par Paul saw the marks of tears on her cheeks \endash  She gives water to the dead. He felt a pang of grief strike through him, but it was as though he could only feel this thing through Chani's presence. 
\par \'93He is dead, beloved,\'94 Chani said. \'93Our son is dead.\'94 
\par Holding himself under stiff control, Paul got to his feet. He reached out, touched Chani's cheek, feeling the dampness of her tears. \'93He cannot be replaced,\'94 Paul said, \'93but there will be other sons. It is Usul who promises this.\'94
 Gently, he moved her aside, gestured to Stilgar.
\par \'93Muad'Dib,\'94 Stilgar said.
\par \'93They come from the ship, the Emperor and his people,\'94 Paul said. \'93I will stand here. Assemble the captives in an open space in, the center of the room. They will be kept at a distance of ten meters from me unless I command otherwise.\'94 
\par \'93As you command, Muad'Dib.\'94
\par As Stilgar turned to obey, Paul heard the awed muttering of Fremen guards: \'93You see? He knew! No one told him, but he knew!\'94
\par The Emperor's entourage could be heard approaching now, his Sardaukar humming one of their marching tunes to keep up their spirits. There ca
me a murmur of voices at the entrance and Gurney Halleck passed through the guard, crossed to confer with Stilgar, then moved to Paul's side, a strange look in His eyes.
\par Will I lose Gurney, too? Paul wondered. The way I lost Stilgar \endash  losing a friend to gain a creature?
\par \'93They have no throwing weapons,\'94 Gurney said. \'93I've made sure of that myself.\'94 He glanced around the room, seeing Paul's preparations. \'93Feyd-Rautha Harkonnen is with them. Shall I cut him out?\'94 
\par \'93Leave him.\'94
\par \'93There're some Guild people, too, demanding special privileges, threatening an embargo against Arrakis. I told them I'd give you their message.\'94 
\par \'93Let them threaten.\'94
\par \'93Paul!\'94 Jessica hissed behind him. \'93He's talking about the Guild!\'94 
\par \'93I'll pull their fangs presently,\'94 Paul said.
\par And he thought then about the Guild \endash  the force that had specialized for so long that it had become a parasite, unable to exist independently of the life upon which it fed. They had never dared grasp the sword\'85
 and now they could not grasp it. They might have take
n Arrakis when they realized the error of specializing on the melange awareness-spectrum narcotic for their navigators. They could have done this, lived their glorious day and died. Instead, they'd existed from moment to moment, hoping the seas in which t
hey swam might produce a new host when the old one died.
\par The Guild navigators, gifted with limited prescience, had made the fatal decision: they'd chosen always the clear, safe course that leads ever downward into stagnation.
\par Let them look closely at their new host, Paul thought.
\par \'93There's also a Bene Gesserit Reverend Mother who says she's a friend of your mother,\'94 Gurney said. 
\par \'93My mother has no Bene Gesserit friends.\'94
\par Again, Gurney glanced around the Great Hall, then bent close to Paul's ear. \'93Thufir Hawat's with \lquote 
em, m'Lord. I had no chance to see him alone, but he used our old hand signs to say he's been working with the Harkonnens, thought you were dead. Says he's to be left among \lquote em.\'94 
\par \'93You left Thufir among those \endash \'94
\par \'93He wanted it\'85 and I thought it best. If\'85 there's something wrong, he's where we can control him. If not \endash  we've an ear on the other side.\'94
\par Paul thought then of prescient glimpses into the possibilities of this moment \endash  and one time-line where Thufir carried a poisoned needle which the Emperor commanded he use against \'93this upstart Duke.\'94
\par The entrance guards stepped aside, formed a short corridor of lances. There came a murmurous swish of garments, feet rasping the sand that had drifted into the Residency.
\par The Padishah Emperor Shaddam IV led
 his people into the hall. His burseg helmet had been lost and the red hair stood out in disarray. His uniform's left sleeve had been ripped along the inner seam. He was beltless and without weapons, but his presence moved with him like a force-shield bub
ble that kept his immediate area open.
\par A Fremen lance dropped across his path, stopped him where Paul had ordered. The others bunched up behind, a montage of color, of shuffling and of staring faces.
\par Paul swept his gaze across the group, saw women who hid s
igns of weeping, saw the lackeys who had come to enjoy grandstand seats at a Sardaukar victory and now stood choked to silence by defeat. Paul saw the bird-bright eyes of the Reverend Mother Gaius Helen Mohiam glaring beneath her black hood, and beside he
r the narrow furtiveness of Feyd-Rautha Harkonnen. 
\par There's a face time betrayed to me, Paul thought.
\par He looked beyond Feyd-Rautha then, attracted by a movement, seeing there a narrow, weaselish face he'd never before encountered \endash  not in time or out of it. It was a face he felt he should know and the feeling carried with it a marker of fear. 

\par Why should I fear that man? he wondered.
\par He leaned toward his mother, whispered: \'93That man to the left of the Reverend Mother, the evil-looking one \endash  who is that?\'94 
\par Jessica looked, recognizing the face from her Duke's dossiers. \'93Count Fenring,\'94 she said. \'93The one who was here immediately before us. A genetic-eunuch\'85 and a killer.\'94
\par The Emperor's errand boy, Paul thought. And the thought was a shock crashing across his consciousness because he had seen the Emperor in uncounted associations spread through the possible futures\endash 
but never once had Count Fenring appeared within those prescient visions.
\par It occurred to Paul then that he had seen his own dead body along countless reaches of the time web, but never once had he seen his moment of death.
\par Have I been denied a glimpse of this man because he is the one who kills me? Paul wondered.
\par The thought sent a pang of foreboding through him. He forced his attention away from Fenrin
g, looked now at the remnants of Sardaukar men and officers, the bitterness on their faces and the desperation. Here and there among them, faces caught Paul's attention briefly: Sardaukar officers measuring the preparations within this room, planning and 
scheming yet for a way to turn defeat into victory.
\par Paul's attention came at last to a tall blonde woman, green-eyed, a face of patrician beauty, classic in its hauteur, untouched by tears, completely undefeated. Without being told it, Paul knew her \endash  Princess Royal, Bene Gesserit \endash 
 trained, a face that time vision had shown him in many aspects: Irulan. 
\par There's my key, he thought.
\par Then he saw movement in the clustered people, a face and figure emerged \endash  Thufir Hawat, the seamed old features with darkly stained lips, the hunched shoulders, the look of fragile age about him.
\par \'93There's Thufir Hawat,\'94 Paul said. \'93Let him stand free, Gurney.\'94 
\par \'93M'Lord,\'94 Gurney said.
\par \'93Let him stand free,\'94 Paul repeated. 
\par Gurney nodded.
\par Hawat shambled forward as a Fremen lance was lifted and replaced behind him. The rheumy eyes peered at Paul, measuring, seeking.
\par Paul stepped forward one pace, sensed the tense, waiting movement of the Emperor and his people.
\par Hawat's gaze stabbed past Paul, and the old man said: \'93Lady Jessica, I but learned this day how I've wronged you in my thoughts. You needn't forgive.\'94 
\par Paul waited, but his mother remained silent.
\par \'93Thufir, old friend,\'94 Paul said, \'93as you can see, my back is toward no door.\'94 
\par \'93The universe is full of doors,\'94 Hawat said. 
\par \'93Am I my father's son?\'94 Paul asked.
\par \'93More like your grandfather's,\'94 Hawat rasped. \'93You've his manner and the look of him in your eyes.\'94
\par \'93Yet I'm my father's son,\'94 Paul said. \'93For I say to you, Thufir, that in payment for your years of service to my family you may now ask anything you wish of me. Anything at all. Do you need my life now, Thufir? It is yours.\'94
 Paul stepped forward a pace, hands at his side, seeing the look of awareness grow in Hawat's eyes. 
\par He realizes that I know of the treachery, Paul thought.
\par Pitching his voice to carry in a half-whisper for Hawat's ears alone, Paul said: \'93I mean this, Thufir. If you're to strike me, do it now.\'94
\par \'93I but wanted to stand before you once more, my Duke,\'94 Hawat said. And Paul became aware for the first time of the effort 
the old man exerted to keep from falling. Paul reached out, supported Hawat by the shoulders, feeling the muscle tremors beneath his hands.
\par \'93Is there pain, old friend?\'94 Paul asked.
\par \'93There is pain, my Duke,\'94 Hawat agreed, \'93but the pleasure is greater.\'94 He half turned in Paul's arms, extended his left hand, palm up, toward the Emperor, exposing the tiny needle cupped against the fingers. \'93See, Majesty?\'94 he called. 
\'93See your traitor's needle? Did you think that I who've given my life to service of the Atreides would give them less now?\'94
\par Paul staggered as the old man sagged in his arms, felt the death there, the utter flaccidity. Gently, Paul lowered Hawat to the floor, straightened and signed for guardsmen to carry the body away.
\par Silence held the hall while his command was obeyed.
\par A look of deadly waiting held the Emperor's face now. Eyes that had never admitted fear admitted it at last.
\par \'93Majesty,\'94 Paul said, and noted the jerk of surprised attention in the tall Princess Royal. The words had been uttered with the Bene Gesserit controlled atonals, carrying in it every shade of contempt and scorn that Paul could put there. 
\par Bene-Gesserit trained indeed, Paul thought.
\par The Emperor cleared his throat, said: \'93Perhaps my respected kinsman believes he has things all his own way now. Nothing could be more remote from fact. You have violated the Convention, used atomics against \endash \'94
\par \'93I used atomics against a natural feature of the desert,\'94 Paul said. \'93It was in my way and I was in a hurry to get to you, Majesty, to ask your explanation for some of your strange activities.\'94 
\par \'93There's a massed armada of the Great Houses in space over Arrakis right now,\'94 the Emperor said. \'93I've but to say the word and they'll \endash \'94
\par \'93Oh, yes,\'94 Paul said, \'93I almost forgot about them.\'94 He searched through the Emperor's suite until he saw the faces of the two Guildsmen, spoke aside to Gurney. \'93
Are those the Guild agents, Gurney, the two fat ones dressed in gray over there?\'94 
\par \'93Yes, m'Lord.\'94
\par \'93You two,\'94 Paul said, pointing. \'93Get out of there immediately and dispatch messages that will get that fleet on its way home. After this, you'll ask my permission before \endash \'94
\par \'93The Guild doesn't take your orders!\'94 the taller of the two barked. He and his companion pushed through to the barrier lances, which were raised at a nod from Paul. The two men stepped out and the taller leveled an arm at Paul, said: \'93
You may very well be under embargo for your \endash \'94
\par \'93If I hear any more nonsense from either of you,\'94 Paul said, \'93I'll give the order that'll destroy all spice production on Arrakis\'85 forever.\'94
\par \'93Are you mad?\'94 the tall Guildsman demanded. He fell back half a step.
\par \'93You grant that I have the power to do this thing, then?\'94 Paul asked.
\par The Guildsman seemed to stare into space for a moment, then: \'93Yes, you could do it, but you must not.\'94
\par \'93Ah-h-h,\'94 Paul said and nodded to himself. \'93Guild navigators, both of you, eh?\'94 
\par \'93Yes!\'94
\par The shorter of the pair said: \'93You would blind yourself, too, and condemn us all to slow death. Have you any idea what it means to be deprived of the spice liquor once you're addicted?\'94 
\par \'93The eye that looks ahead to the safe course is closed forever,\'94 Paul said. \'93The Guild is crippled. Humans become little isolated clusters on their isolated planets. You know, I might do this thing out of pure spite\'85 or out of ennui.\'94

\par \'93Let us talk this over privately,\'94 the taller Guildsman said. \'93I'm sure we can come to some compromise that is \endash \'94 
\par \'93Send the message to your people over Arrakis,\'94 Paul said. \'93I grow tired of this argument. If that fleet over us doesn't leave soon there'll be no need for us to talk.\'94 He nodded toward his communications men at the side of the hall. \'93
You may use our equipment.\'94
\par \'93First we must discuss this,\'94 the tall Guildsman said. \'93We cannot just \endash \'94
\par \'93Do it!\'94 Paul barked. \'93The power to destroy a thing is the absolute control over it. You've agreed I have that power. We are not here to discuss or to negotiate or to compromise. You will obey my orders or suffer the immediate consequences!\'94 

\par \'93He means it,\'94 the shorter Guildsman said. And Paul saw the fear grip them.
\par Slowly the two crossed to the Fremen communications equipment.
\par \'93Will they obey?\'94 Gurney asked.
\par \'93They have a narrow vision of time,\'94 Paul said. \'93They can see ahead to a blank wall marking the consequences of disobedience. Every Guild navigator on every ship over us can look ahead to that same wall. They'll obey.\'94
\par Paul turned back to look at the Emperor, said: \'93When they permitted you to mount your father's throne, it was only on the assurance that you'd keep the spice flowing. You've failed them, Majesty. Do you know the consequences?\'94 
\par \'93Nobody permitted me to \endash \'94
\par \'93Stop playing the fool,\'94 Paul barked. \'93The Guild is like a village beside a river. They need the water, but can only dip out what they require. They cannot dam the river and control it, becaus
e that focuses attention on what they take, it brings down eventual destruction. The spice flow, that's their river, and I have built a dam. But my dam is such that you cannot destroy it without destroying the river.\'94
\par The Emperor brushed a hand through his red hair, glanced at the backs of the two Guildsmen.
\par \'93Even your Bene Gesserit Truthsayer is trembling,\'94 Paul said. \'93There are other poisons the Reverend Mothers can use for their tricks, but once they've used the spice liquor, the others no longer work.\'94
\par The old woman pulled her shapeless black robes around her, pressed forward out of the crowd to stand at the barrier lances.
\par \'93Reverend Mother Gaius Helen Mohiam,\'94 Paul said. \'93It has been a long time since Caladan, hasn't it?\'94
\par She looked past him at his mother, said: \'93Well, Jessica, I see that your son is indeed the one. For that you can be forgiven even the abomination of your daughter.\'94
\par Paul stilled a cold, piercing anger, said: \'93You've never had the right or cause to forgive my mother anything!\'94 
\par The old woman locked eyes with him.
\par \'93Try your tricks on me, old witch,\'94 Paul said. \'93Where's your gom jabbar? Try looking into that place where you dare not look! You'll find me there staring out at you!\'94 
\par The old woman dropped her gaze. 
\par \'93Have you nothing to say?\'94 Paul demanded.
\par \'93I welcomed you to the ranks of humans,\'94 she muttered. \'93Don't besmirch that.\'94
\par Paul raised his voice: \'93Observe her, comrades! This is a Bene Gesserit Reverend Mother, patient in a patient cause. She could wait with her sisters \endash  ninety genera
tions for the proper combination of genes and environment to produce the one person their schemes required. Observe her! She knows now that the ninety generations have produced that person. Here I stand\'85 but\'85 I\'85 will\'85 never\'85 do\'85 her\'85
 bidding!\'94 
\par \'93Jessica!\'94 the old woman screamed. \'93Silence him!\'94
\par \'93Silence him yourself,\'94 Jessica said.
\par Paul glared at the old woman. \'93For your part in all this I could gladly have you strangled,\'94 he said. \'93You couldn't prevent it!\'94 he snapped as she stiffened in rage. \'93But I think 
it better punishment that you live out your years never able to touch me or bend me to a single thing your scheming desires.\'94 
\par \'93Jessica, what have you done?\'94 the old woman demanded.
\par \'93I'll give you only one thing,\'94 Paul said. \'93You saw part of what the race needs, but how poorly you saw it. You think to control human breeding and intermix a select few according to your master plan! How little you understand of what \endash 
\'94 
\par \'93You mustn't speak of these things!\'94 the old woman hissed.
\par \'93Silence!\'94 Paul roared. The word seemed to take substance as it twisted through the air between them under Paul's control.
\par The old woman reeled back into the arms of those behind her, face blank with shock at the power with which he had seized her psyche. \'93Jessica, \'93she whispered. \'93Jessica.\'94
\par \'93I remember your gom jabbar,\'94 Paul said. \'93You remember mine. I can kill you with a word.\'94
\par The Fremen around the ball glanced knowingly at each other. Did the legend not say: \'93And his word shall carry death eternal to those who stand against righteousness.\'94
\par Paul turned his attention to the tall Princess Royal standing beside her Emperor father. Keeping his eyes focused on her, he said: \'93Majesty, we both know the way out of our difficulty.\'94 
\par The Emperor glanced at his daughter, back to Paul. \'93You dare? You! An adventurer without family, a nobody from \endash \'94 
\par \'93You've already admitted who I am,\'94 Paul said. \'93Royal kinsman, you said. Let's stop this nonsense.\'94
\par \'93I am your ruler,\'94 the Emperor said.
\par Paul glanced at the Guildsmen standing now at the communications equipment and facing him. One of them nodded. 
\par \'93I could force it,\'94 Paul said.
\par \'93You will not dare!\'94 the Emperor grated. 
\par Paul merely stared at him.
\par The Princess Royal put a hand on her father's arm. \'93Father,\'94 she said, and her voice was silky soft, soothing.
\par \'93Don't try your tricks on me,\'94 the Emperor said. He looked at her. \'93You don't need to do this, Daughter. We've other resources that \endash \'94 
\par \'93But here's a man fit to be your son,\'94 she said.
\par The old Reverend Mother, her composure regained, forced her way to the Emperor's side, leaned close to his ear and whispered.
\par \'93She pleads your case,\'94 Jessica said.
\par Paul continued to look at the golden-haired Princess. Aside to his mother, he said: \'93That's Irulan, the oldest, isn't it?\'94 
\par \'93Yes.\'94
\par Chani moved up on Paul's other side, said: \'93Do you wish me to leave, Muad'Dib?\'94 
\par He glanced at her. \'93Leave? You'll never again leave my side.\'94 
\par \'93There's nothing binding between us,\'94 Chani said.
\par Paul looked down at her for a silent moment, then: \'93Speak only truth with me, my Sihaya.\'94 As she started to reply, he silenced her with a finger to her lips. \'93That which binds us cannot be loosed,\'94 he said. \'93
Now, watch these matters closely for I wish to see this room later through your wisdom.\'94
\par The Emperor and his Truthsayer were carrying on a heated, low-voiced argument.
\par Paul spoke to his mother: \'93She reminds him that it's part of their agreement to place a Bene Gesserit on the throne, and Irulan is the one they've groomed for it.\'94 
\par \'93Was that their plan?\'94 Jessica said. 
\par \'93Isn't it obvious?\'94 Paul asked.
\par \'93I see the signs!\'94 Jessica snapped. \'93My question was meant to remind you that you should not try to teach me those matters in which I instructed you.\'94 
\par Paul glanced at her, caught a cold smile on her lips.
\par Gurney Halleck leaned between them, said: \'93I remind you, m'Lord, that there's a Harkonnen in that bunch.\'94 He nodded toward the dark-haired Feyd-Rautha pressed against a barrier lance on the left. \'93
The one with the squinting eyes there on the left. As evil a face as I ever say. You promised me once that \endash \'94 
\par \'93Thank you, Gurney,\'94 Paul said.
\par \'93It's the na-Baron\'85 Baron now that the old man's dead,\'94 Gurney said. \'93He'll do for what I've in \endash \'94 
\par \'93Can you take him, Gurney?\'94 \'93M'Lord jests!\'94
\par \'93That argument between the Emperor and his witch has gone on long enough, don't you think, Mother?\'94 
\par She nodded. \'93Indeed.\'94
\par Paul raised his voice, called out to the Emperor: \'93Majesty, is there a Harkonnen among you?\'94
\par Royal disdain revealed itself in the way the Emperor turned to look at Paul. \'93I believe my entourage has been placed under the protection of your ducal word,\'94 he said.
\par \'93My question was for information only,\'94 Paul said. \'93I wish to know if a Harkonnen is officially a part of your entourage or if a Harkonnen is merely hiding behind a technicality out of cowardice.\'94
\par The Emperor's smile was calculating. \'93Anyone accepted into the Imperial company is a member of my entourage.\'94 
\par \'93You have the word of a Duke,\'94 Paul said, \'93but Muad'Dib is another matter. He may not recognize your definition of what constitutes an entourage. My friend Gurney Halleck wishes to kill a Harkonnen. If he \endash \'94
\par \'93Kanly!\'94 Feyd-Rautha shouted. He pressed against the barrier lance. \'93Your father named this vendetta, Atreides. You call me coward while you hide among your women and offer to send a lackey against me!\'94
\par The old Truthsayer whispered something fiercely into the Emperor's ear, but he pushed her aside, said: \'93Kanly, is it? There are strict rules for kanly.\'94 
\par \'93Paul, put a stop to this,\'94 Jessica said.
\par \'93M'Lord,\'94 Gurney said, \'93You promised me my day against the Harkonnens.\'94
\par \'93You've had your day against them,\'94 Paul said and he felt a harlequin abandon take over his emotions. He slipped his robe and hood from his shoulders, handed them to his mother with his belt and crysknife, began unstrapping his stillsuit.
 He sensed now that the universe focused on this moment.
\par \'93There's no need for this,\'94 Jessica said. \'93There are easier ways, Paul.\'94
\par Paul stepped out of his stillsuit, slipped the crysknife from its sheath in his mother's hand. \'93I know,\'94 he said. \'93Poison, an assassin, all the old familiar ways.\'94
\par \'93You promised me a Harkonnen!\'94 Gurney hissed, and Paul marked the rage in the man's face, the way the inkvine scar stood out dark and ridged. \'93You owe it to me, m'Lord!\'94 
\par \'93Have you suffered more from them than I?\'94 Paul asked. 
\par \'93My sister,\'94 Gurney rasped. \'93My years in the slave pits \endash \'94
\par \'93My father,\'94 Paul said. \'93My good friends and companions, Thufir Hawat and Duncan Idaho, my years as a fugitive without rank or succor\'85 and one more thing: it is now kanly and you know as well as I the rules that must prevail.\'94
\par Halleck's shoulders sagged. \'93M'Lord, if that swine\'85 he's no more than a beast you'd spurn with your foot and discard the shoe because it'd been contaminated. Call in an executioner, if you must, or let me do it, but don't offer yourself to \endash 
\'94
\par \'93Muad'Dib need not do this thing,\'94 Chani said.
\par He glanced at her, saw the fear for him in her eyes. \'93But the Duke Paul must,\'94 he said.
\par \'93This is a Harkonnen animal!\'94 Gurney rasped.
\par Paul hesitated on the point of revealing his own Harkonnen ancestry, stopped at a sharp look from his mother, said merely: \'93But this being has human shape, Gurney, and deserves human doubt.\'94 
\par Gurney said: \'93If he so much as \endash \'94
\par \'93Please stand aside,\'94 Paul said. He hefted the crysknife, pushed Gurney gently aside.
\par \'93Gurney!\'94 Jessica said. She touched Gurney's arm. \'93He's like his grandfather in this mood. Don't distract him. It's the only thing you can do for him now.\'94 And she thought: Great Mother! What irony.
\par The Emperor was studying Feyd-Rautha, seeing the heavy shoulders, the thick muscles. He turned to look at Paul \endash 
 a stringy whipcord of a youth, not as desiccated as the Arrakeen natives, but with ribs there to count, and sunken in the flanks so that the ripple and gather of muscles could be followed under the skin.
\par Jessica leaned close to Paul, pitched her voice for his ears alone: \'93One thing, Son. Sometimes a dangerous person is prepared by the Bene Gesserit, a word implanted into the deepest recesses by the old pleasure-pain methods. The word-sound most f
requently used is Uroshnor. If this one's been prepared, as I strongly suspect, that word uttered in his ear will render his muscles flaccid and \endash \'94 
\par \'93I want no special advantage for this one,\'94 Paul said. \'93Step back out of my way.\'94
\par Gurney spoke to her: \'93Why is he doing this? Does he think to get himself killed and achieve martyrdom? This Fremen religious prattle, is that what clouds his reason?\'94
\par Jessica hid her face in her hands, realizing that she did not know fully why Paul took this course. She could feel
 death in the room and knew that the changed Paul was capable of such a thing as Gurney suggested. Every talent within her focused on the need to protect her son, but there was nothing she could do. 
\par \'93Is it this religious prattle?\'94 Gurney insisted. 
\par \'93Be silent,\'94 Jessica whispered. \'93And pray.\'94
\par The Emperor's face was touched by an abrupt smile. \'93If Feyd-Rautha Harkonnen\'85 of my entourage\'85 so wishes,\'94 he said, \'93I relieve him of all restraint and give him freedom to choose his own course in this.\'94 The Emperor wa
ved a hand toward Paul's Fedaykin guards. \'93One of your rabble has my belt and short blade. If Feyd-Rautha wishes it, he may meet you with my blade in his hand.\'94
\par \'93I wish it,\'94 Feyd-Rautha said, and Paul saw the elation on the man's face.
\par He's overconfident, Paul thought. There's a natural advantage I can accept.
\par \'93Get the Emperor's blade,\'94 Paul said, and watched as his command was obeyed. \'93Put it on the floor there.\'94 He indicated a place with his foot. \'93Clear the Imperial rabble back against the wall and let the Harkonnen stand clear.\'94
\par A flurry of robes, scraping of feet, low-voiced commands and protests accompanied obedience to Paul's command. The Guildsmen remained standing near the communications equipment. They frowned at Paul in obvious indecision.
\par They're accustomed to seeing the future, Paul thought. In this place and time they're blind\'85
 even as I am. And he sampled the time-winds, sensing the turmoil, the storm nexus that now focused on this moment place. Even the faint gaps were closed now. Here was the
 unborn jihad, he knew. Here was the race consciousness that he had known once as his own terrible purpose. Here was reason enough for a Kwisatz Haderach or a Lisan al-Gaib or even the halting schemes of the Bene Gesserit. The race of humans had felt its 
o
wn dormancy, sensed itself grown stale and knew now only the need to experience turmoil in which the genes would mingle and the strong new mixtures survive. All humans were alive as an unconscious single organism in this moment, experiencing a kind of sex
ual heat that could override any barrier.
\par And Paul saw how futile were any efforts of his to change any smallest bit of this. He had thought to oppose the jihad within himself, but the jihad would be. His legions would rage out from Arrakis even without him
. They needed only the legend he already had become. He had shown them the way, given them mastery even over the Guild which must have the spice to exist.
\par A sense of failure pervaded him, and he saw through it that Feyd-Rautha Harkonnen had slipped out of the torn uniform, stripped down to a fighting girdle with a mail core.
\par This is the climax, Paul thought. From here, the future will open, the clouds part onto a kind of glory. And if I die here, they'll say I sacrificed myself that my spirit might lead them. And if I live, they'll say nothing can oppose Muad'Dib.
\par \'93Is the Atreides ready?\'94 Feyd-Rautha called, using the words of the ancient kanly ritual.
\par Paul chose to answer him in the Fremen way: \'93May thy knife chip and shatter!\'94 He pointed to the Emperor's blade on the floor, indicating that Feyd-Rautha should advance and take it.
\par Keeping his attention on Paul, Feyd-Rautha picked up the knife, balancing it a moment in his hand to get the feel of it. Excitement kindled in him. This was a fight he had dreamed about \endash 
 man against man, skill against skill with no shields intervening. He could see a way to power opening before him because the Emperor surely would reward whoever killed this troublesome duke. The reward might even be that haughty daughter and a share
 of the throne. And this yokel duke, this back-world adventurer could not possibly be a match for a Harkonnen trained in every device and every treachery by a thousand arena combats. And the yokel had no way of knowing he faced more weapons than a knife h
ere.
\par Let us see if you're proof against poison! Feyd-Rautha thought. He saluted Paul with the Emperor's blade, said: \'93Meet your death, fool.\'94
\par \'93Shall we fight, cousin?\'94 Paul asked. And he cat-footed forward, eyes on the waiting blade, his body crouched low with his own milk-white crysknife pointing out as though an extension of his arm.
\par They circled each other, bare feet grating on the floor, watching with eyes intent for the slightest opening. 
\par \'93How beautifully you dance,\'94 Feyd-Rautha said.
\par He's a talker, Paul thought. There's another weakness. He grows uneasy in the face of silence.
\par \'93Have you been shriven?\'94 Feyd-Rautha asked. 
\par Still, Paul circled in silence.
\par And the old Reverend Mother, watching the fight from the press of the Emperor's suite, felt herself t
rembling. The Atreides youth had called the Harkonnen cousin. It could only mean he knew the ancestry they shared, easy to understand because he was the Kwisatz Haderach. But the words forced her to focus on the only thing that mattered to her here.

\par This could be a major catastrophe for the Bene Gesserit breeding scheme.
\par She had seen something of what Paul had seen here, that Feyd-Rautha might kill but not be victorious. Another thought, though, almost overwhelmed her. Two end products of this long and cost
ly program faced each other in a fight to the death that might easily claim both of them. If both died here that would leave only Feyd-Rautha's bastard daughter, still a baby, an unknown, an unmeasured factor, and Alia, the abomination.
\par \'93Perhaps you have only pagan rites here,\'94 Feyd-Rautha said. \'93Would you like the Emperor's Truthsayer to prepare your spirit for its journey?\'94
\par Paul smiled, circling to the right, alert, his black thoughts suppressed by the needs of the moment.
\par Feyd-Rautha leaped, feinting with right hand, but with the knife shifted in a blur to his left hand.
\par Paul dodged easily, noting the shield-conditioned hesitation in Feyd-Rautha's thrust. Still, it was not as great a shield conditioning as some Paul had seen, and he sensed that Feyd-Rautha had fought before against unshielded foes.
\par \'93Does an Atreides run or stand and fight?\'94 Feyd-Rautha asked.
\par Paul resumed his silent circling. Idaho's words came back to him, the words of training from the long-ago practice floor on Caladan: \'93Use the first m
oments in study. You may miss many an opportunity for quick victory this way, but the moments of study are insurance of success. Take your time and be sure.\'94
\par \'93Perhaps you think this dance prolongs your life a few moments,\'94 Feyd-Rautha said. \'93Well and good.\'94 He stopped the circling, straightened.
\par Paul had seen enough for a first approximation. Feyd-Rautha led to the left side, presenting the right hip as though the mailed fighting girdle could protect his entire side. It was the action of a man trained to the shield and with a knife in both hands.

\par Or\'85 And Paul hesitated\'85 the girdle was more than it seemed.
\par The Harkonnen appeared too confident against a man who'd this day led the forces of victory against Sardaukar legions.
\par Feyd-Rautha noted the hesitation, said: \'93Why prolong the inevitable? You but keep me from exercising my rights over this ball of dirt.\'94
\par If it's a flip-dart, Paul thought, it's a cunning one. The girdle shows no signs of tampering.
\par \'93Why don't you speak?\'94 Feyd-Rautha demanded.
\par Paul resumed his probing circle, allowing himself a cold smile at the tone of unease in Feyd-Rautha's voice, evidence that the pressure of silence was building.
\par \'93You smile, eh?\'94 Feyd-Rautha asked. And he leaped in mid-sentence.
\par Expecting the slight hesitation, Paul almost failed to evade the downflash of blade, felt its tip scratch his left arm. He silenced the sudden pain there, his mind flooded with realization that the earlier hesitation had been a trick \endash 
 an overfeint. Here was more of an opponent than he had expected. There would be tricks within tricks within tricks.
\par \'93Your own Thufir Hawat taught me some of my skills,\'94 Feyd-Rautha said. \'93He gave me first blood. Too bad the old fool didn't live to see it.\'94
\par And Paul recalled that Idaho had once said, \'93Expect only what happens in the fight. That way you'll never be surprised.\'94 
\par Again the two circled each other, crouched, cautious.
\par Paul saw the return of elation to his opponent, wondered at it. Did a scratch signify that much to the man? Unless there were poison on the bl
ade! But how could there be? His own men had handled the weapon, snooped it before passing it. They were too well trained to miss an obvious thing like that.
\par \'93That woman you were talking to over there,\'94 Feyd-Rautha said. \'93The little one. Is she something special to you? A pet perhaps? Will she deserve my special attentions?\'94 
\par Paul remained silent, probing with his inner senses, examining the blood from the wound, finding a trace of soporific from the Emperor's blade. He realigned his own metabolism to match
 this threat and change the molecules of the soporific, but he felt a thrill of doubt. They'd been prepared with soporific on a blade. A soporific. Nothing to alert a poison snooper, but strong enough to slow the muscles it touched. His enemies had their 
own plans within plans, their own stacked treacheries. 
\par Again Feyd-Rautha leaped, stabbing.
\par Paul, the smile frozen on his face, feinted with slowness as though inhibited by the drug and at the last instant dodged to meet the downflashing arm on the crysknife's point.
\par Feyd-Rautha ducked sideways and was out and away, his blade shifted to his left hand, and the measure of him that only a slight paleness of jaw betrayed the acid pain where Paul had cut him.
\par Let him know his own moment of doubt, Paul thought. Let him suspect poison.
\par \'93Treachery!\'94 Feyd-Rautha shouted. \'93He's poisoned me! I do feel poison in my arm!\'94
\par Paul dropped his cloak of silence, said: \'93Only a little acid to counter the soporific on the Emperor's blade.\'94
\par Feyd-Rautha matched Paul's cold smile, lifted blade in left hand for a mock salute. His eyes glared rage behind the knife.
\par Paul shifted his crysknife to his left hand, matching his opponent. Again, they circled, probing.
\par Feyd-Rautha began closing the space between them, edging in, knife held high, anger showing itself in squint of eye and set of jaw. He feinted right and under, and they were pressed against each other, knife hands gripped, straining.
\par Paul, cautious of Feyd-Rautha's right hip where he suspected a poison flip-dart, forced the turn t
o the right. He almost failed to see the needlepoint flick out beneath the belt line. A shift and a giving in Feyd-Rautha's motion warned him. The tiny point missed Paul's flesh by the barest fraction. 
\par On the left hip!
\par Treachery within treachery within tr
eachery, Paul reminded himself. Using Bene Gesserit-trained muscles, he sagged to catch a reflex in Feyd-Rautha, but the necessity of avoiding the tiny point jutting from his opponent's hip threw Paul off just enough that he missed his footing and found h
imself thrown hard to the floor, Feyd-Rautha on top.
\par \'93You see it there on my hip?\'94 Feyd-Rautha whispered. \'93Your death, fool.\'94 And he began twisting himself around, forcing the poisoned needle closer and closer. \'93It'll stop your muscles and my knife will fin
ish you. There'll be never a trace left to detect!"
\par Paul strained, hearing the silent screams in his mind, his cell-stamped ancestors demanding that he use the secret word to slow Feyd-Rautha, to save himself. 
\par \'93I will not say it!\'94 Paul gasped.
\par Feyd-Rauth
a gaped at him, caught in the merest fraction of hesitation. It was enough for Paul to find the weakness of balance in one of his opponent's leg muscles, and their positions were reversed. Feyd-Rautha lay partly underneath with right hip high, unable to t
urn because of the tiny needlepoint caught against the floor beneath him.
\par Paul twisted his left hand free, aided by the lubrication of blood from his arm, thrust once hard up underneath Feyd-Rautha's jaw. The point slid home into the brain. Feyd-Rautha jerk
ed and sagged back, still held partly on his side by the needle imbedded in the floor.
\par Breathing deeply to restore his calm, Paul pushed himself away and got to his feet. He stood over the body, knife in hand, raised his eyes with deliberate slowness to look across the room at the Emperor.
\par \'93Majesty,\'94 Paul said, \'93your force is reduced by one more. Shall we now shed sham and pretense? Shall we now discuss what must be? Your daughter wed to me and the way opened for an Atreides to sit on the throne.\'94
\par The Emperor turned, looked at Count Fenring. The Count met his stare \endash  gray eyes against green. The thought lay there clearly between them, their association so long that understanding could be achieved with a glance.
\par Kill this upstart for me, the Emperor was saying. The Atreides is young and resourceful, yes \endash  but he is also tired from long effort and he'd be no match for you, anyway. Call him out now\'85 you know the way of it. Kill him.
\par Slowly, Fenring moved his head, a prolonged turning until he faced Paul.
\par \'93Do it!\'94 the Emperor hissed.
\par The Count focused on Paul, seeing with eyes his Lady Margot had trained in the Bene Gesserit way, aware of the mystery and hidden grandeur about this Atreides youth.
\par I could kill him, Fenring thought \endash  and he knew this for a truth.
\par Something in his own secretive depths stayed the Count then, and he glimpsed briefly, inadequately, the advantage he held over Paul \endash  a way of hiding from the youth, a furtiveness of person and motives that no eye could penetrate.
\par Paul, aware of some of this from the way the time nexus boiled, understood at last why he had never seen Fenring along the webs of prescience. Fenring was one of the might-have-beens, an almost Kwisatz Haderach, crippled by a flaw in the genetic pattern 
\endash  a eunuch, his talent concentrated into furtiveness and inner seclusion. A deep compassion for the Count flowed through Paul, the first sense of brotherhood he'd ever experienced.
\par Fenring, reading Paul's emotion, said, \'93Majesty, I must refuse.\'94
\par Rage overcame Shaddam IV. He took two short steps through the entourage, cuffed Fenring viciously across the jaw.
\par A dark flush spread up and over the Count's face. He looked directly at the Emperor, spoke with deliberate lack of emphasis: \'93We have been friends, Majesty. What I do now is out of friendship. I shall forget that you struck me.\'94
\par Paul cleared his throat, said: \'93We were speaking of the throne, Majesty.\'94
\par The Emperor whirled, glared at Paul. \'93I sit on the throne!\'94 he barked.
\par \'93You shall have a throne on Salusa Secundus,\'94 Paul said.
\par \'93I put down my arms and came here on your word of bond!\'94 the Emperor shouted. \'93You dare threaten \endash \'94
\par \'93Your person is safe in my presence,\'94 Paul said. \'93An Atreides promised it. Muad'Dib, however, sentences you to your prison planet. But have no fear, Majesty. I wi
ll ease the harshness of the place with all the powers at my disposal. It shall become a garden world, full of gentle things.\'94
\par As the hidden import of Paul's words grew in the Emperor's mind, he glared across the room at Paul. \'93Now we see true motives,\'94 he sneered. 
\par \'93Indeed,\'94 Paul said.
\par \'93And what of Arrakis?\'94 the Emperor asked. \'93Another garden world full of gentle things?\'94
\par \'93The Fremen have the word of Muad'Dib,\'94 Paul said. \'93There will be flowing water here open to the sky and green oases rich with good things. But we have the spice to think of, too. Thus, there will always be desert on Arrakis\'85
 and fierce winds, and trials to toughen a man. We Fremen have a saying: \lquote God created Arrakis to train the faithful.\rquote  One cannot go against the word of God.\'94 
\par The old Truthsayer, the Reverend Mother Gaius Helen Mohiam, had her own view of the hidden meaning in Paul's words now. She glimpsed the jihad and said: \'93You cannot loose these people upon the universe!\'94
\par \'93You will think back to the gentle ways of the Sardaukar!\'94 Paul snapped.
\par \'93You cannot,\'94 she whispered.
\par \'93You're a Truthsayer,\'94 Paul said. \'93Review your words.\'94 He glanced at the Princess Royal, back to the Emperor. \'93Best be done quickly, Majesty.\'94
\par The Emperor turned a stricken look upon his daughter. She touched his arm, spoke soothingly: \'93For this I was trained, Father.\'94 
\par He took a deep breath.
\par \'93You cannot stay this thing,\'94 the old Truthsayer muttered.
\par The Emperor straightened, standing stiffly with a look of remembered dignity. \'93Who will negotiate for you, kinsman?\'94 he asked.
\par Paul turned, saw his mother, her eyes heavy-lidded, standing with Chani in a squad of Fedaykin guards. He crossed to them, stood looking down at Chani.
\par \'93I know the reasons,\'94 Chani whispered. \'93If it must be\'85 Usul.\'94
\par Paul, hearing the secret tears in her voice, touched her cheek. \'93My Sihaya need fear nothing, ever,\'94 he whispered. He dropped his arm, faced his mother. \'93
You will negotiate for me. Mother, with Chani by your side. She has wisdom and sharp eyes. And it is wisely said that no one bargains 
tougher than a Fremen. She will be looking through the eyes of her love for me and with the thought of her sons to be, what they will need. Listen to her.\'94 
\par Jessica sensed the harsh calculation in her son, put down a shudder. \'93What are your instructions?\'94 she asked.
\par \'93The Emperor's entire CHOAM Company holdings as dowry,\'94 he said.
\par \'93Entire?\'94 She was shocked almost speechless.
\par \'93He is to be stripped. I'll want an earldom and CHOAM directorship for Gurney Halleck, and him in the fief of Caladan. There will be titles and attendant power for every surviving Atreides man, not excepting the lowliest trooper.\'94 
\par \'93What of the Fremen?\'94 Jessica asked.
\par \'93The Fremen are mine,\'94 Paul said. \'93What they receive shall be dispensed by Muad'Dib. It'll begin with Stilgar as Governor on Arrakis, but that can wait.\'94 
\par \'93And for me?\'94 Jessica asked. 
\par \'93Is there something you wish?\'94
\par \'93Perhaps Caladan,\'94 she said, looking at Gurney. \'93I'm not certain. I've become too much the Fremen\'85 and the Reverend Mother. I need a time of peace and stillness in which to think.\'94 
\par \'93That you shall have,\'94 Paul said, \'93and anything else that Gurney or I can give you.\'94
\par Jessica nodded, feeling suddenly old and tired. She looked at Chani. \'93And for the royal concubine?\'94 
\par \'93No title for me,\'94 Chani whispered. \'93Nothing. I beg of you.\'94 
\par Paul stared down into her eyes, remembering her suddenly as she had stood once with little Leto in her arms, their child now dead in this violence. \'93I swear to you now,\'94 he whispered, \'93that you'll need no title. That woman over there will be my
 wife and you but a concubine because this is a political thing and we must weld peace out of this moment, enlist the Great Houses of the Landsraad. We must obey the forms. Yet that princess shall have no more of me than my name. No child of mine nor touc
h nor softness of glance, nor instant of desire.\'94
\par \'93So you say now,\'94 Chani said. She glanced across the room at the tail princess.
\par \'93Do you know so little of my son?\'94 Jessica whispered. \'93See that princess standing there, so haughty and confident. They say she has pretensions of a literary nature. Let us hope she finds solace in such things; she'll have little else.\'94
 A bitter laugh escaped Jessica. \'93Think on it, Chani: that princess will have the name, yet she'll live as less than a concubine \endash  never to know a 
moment of tenderness from the man to whom she's bound. While we, Chani, we who carry the name of concubine \endash  history will call us wives.\'94
\par 
\par 
\par Appendix I: The Ecology of Dune
\par 
\par Beyond a critical point within a finite space, freedom diminishes as numbers increa
se. This is as true of humans in the finite space of a planetary ecosystem as it is of gas molecules in a sealed flask. The human question is not how many can possibly survive within the system, but what kind of existence is possible for those who do surv
ive.
\par -Pardot Kynes, First Planetologist of Arrakis
\par 
\par The effect of Arrakis on the mind of the newcomer usually is that of overpowering barren land. The stranger might think nothing could live or grow in the open here, that this was the true wasteland that had never been fertile and never would be.
\par To Pardot Kynes, the planet was merely an expression of energy, a machine being driven by its sun. What it needed was reshaping to fit it to man's needs. His mind went directly to the free-moving human population, t
he Fremen. What a challenge! What a tool they could be! Fremen: an ecological and geological force of almost unlimited potential.
\par A direct and simple man in many ways, Pardot Kynes. One must evade Harkonnen restrictions? Excellent. Then one marries a Freme
n woman. When she gives you a Fremen son, you begin with him, with Liet-Kynes, and the other children, teaching them ecological literacy, creating a new language with symbols that arm the mind to manipulate an entire landscape, its climate, seasonal limit
s, and finally to break through all ideas of force into the dazzling awareness of order.
\par \'93There's an internally recognized beauty of motion and balance on any man-healthy planet,\'94 Kynes said. \'93You see in this beauty a dynamic stabilizing effect essential to
 all life. Its aim is simple; to maintain and produce coordinated patterns of greater and greater diversity. Life improves the closed system's capacity to sustain life. Life \endash  all life \endash 
 is in the service of life. Necessary nutrients are made available to life by life in greater and greater richness as the diversity of life increases. The entire landscape comes alive, filled with relationships and relationships within relationships.\'94 

\par This was Pardot Kynes lecturing to a sietch warren class. 
\par Before the lec
tures, though, he had to convince the Fremen. To understand how this came about, you must first understand the enormous single-mindedness, the innocence with which he approached any problem. He was not naive, he merely permitted himself no distractions.

\par He
 was exploring the Arrakis landscape in a one-man groundcar one hot afternoon when he stumbled onto a deplorably common scene. Six Harkonnen bravos, shielded and fully armed, had trapped three Fremen youths in the open behind the Shield Wall near the vill
a
ge of Windsack. To Kynes, it was a ding-dong battle, more slapstick then real, until he focused on the fact that the Harkonnens intended to kill the Fremen. By this time, one of the youths was down with a severed artery, two of the bravos were down as wel
l, but it was still four armed men against two striplings.
\par Kynes wasn't brave; he merely had that single-mindedness and caution. The Harkonnens were killing Fremen. They were destroying the tools with which he intended to remake a planet! He triggered his o
wn shield, waded in and had two of the Harkonnens dead with a slip-tip before they knew anyone was behind them. He dodged a sword thrust from one of the others, slit the man's throat with a neat entrisseur, and left the lone remaining bravo to the two Fre
men youths, turning his full attention to saving the lad on the ground. And save the lad he did\'85 while the sixth Harkonnen was being dispatched.
\par Now here was a pretty kettle of sandtrout! The Fremen didn't know what to make of Kynes. They knew who he was, o
f course. No man arrived on Arrakis without a full dossier finding its way into the Fremen strongholds. They knew him: he was an Imperial servant.
\par But he killed Harkonnens!
\par Adults might have shrugged and, with some regret, sent his shade to join those of the six dead men on the ground. But these Fremen were inexperienced youths and all they could see was that they owed this Imperial servant a mortal obligation.
\par Kynes wound up two days later in a sietch that looked down on Wind Pass. To him, it was all very 
natural. He talked to the Fremen about water, about dunes anchored by grass, about palmaries filled with date palms, about open qanats flowing across the desert. He talked and talked and talked.
\par All around him raged a debate that Kynes never saw. What to d
o with this madman? He knew the location of a major sietch. What to do? What of his words, this mad talk about a paradise on Arrakis? Just talk. He knows too much. But he killed Harkonnens! What of the water burden? When did we owe the Imperium anything? 
He killed Harkonnens. Anyone can kill Harkonnens. I have done it myself.
\par But what of this talk about the flowering of Arrakis? 
\par Very simple: Where is the water for this? 
\par He says it is here! And he did save three of ours.
\par He saved three fools who had put themselves in the way of the Harkonnen fist! And he has seen crysknives!
\par The necessary decision was known for hours before it was voiced. The tau of a sietch tells its members what they must do; even the most brutal necessity is known. An experienced fighter
 was sent with a consecrated knife to do the job. Two watermen followed him to get the water from the body. Brutal necessity.
\par It's doubtful that Kynes even focused on his would-be executioner. He was talking to a group that spread around him at a cautious 
distance. He walked as he talked: a short circle, gesturing. Open water, Kynes said. Walk in the open without stillsuits. Water for dipping it out of a pond! Portyguls! 
\par The knifeman confronted him.
\par \'93Remove yourself,\'94 Kynes said, and went on talking about secret windtraps. He brushed past the man. Kynes\rquote  back stood open for the ceremonial blow. 
\par What went on in that would-be executioner's mind cannot be known now. Did he finally listen to Kynes and believe? Who knows? But what he did is a matter of record. 
Uliet was his name, Older Liet. Uliet walked three paces and deliberately fell on his own knife, thus \'93removing\'94 himself. Suicide? Some say Shai-hulud moved him.
\par Talk about omens!
\par From that instant, Kynes had but to point, saying \'93Go there.\'94 Entire Fremen tribes went. Men died, women died, children died. But they went.
\par Kynes returned to his Imperial chores, directing the Biological Testing Stations. And now, Fremen began to appear among the Station personnel. The Fremen looked at each other. They were infiltrating the \'93system,\'94
 a possibility they'd never considered. Station tools began finding their way into the sietch warrens \endash  especially cutterays which were used to dig underground catchbasins and hidden windtraps. 
\par Water began collecting in the basins.
\par It became apparent to the Fremen that Kynes was not a madman totally, just mad enough to be holy. He was one of the umma, the brotherhood of prophets. The shade of Uliet was advanced to the sadus, the throne of heavenly judges.
\par Kynes \endash  direct, savagely intent Kynes \endash 
 knew that highly organized research is guaranteed to produce nothing new. He set up small-unit experiments with regular interchange of data for a swift Tansley effect, let each group find its own path. They must accumulate millions of tiny facts.
 He organized only isolated and rough run-through tests to put their difficulties into perspective.
\par Core samplings were made throughout the bled. Charts were developed on the long drifts of weather that are called climate. He found that in the wide belt co
ntained by the 70-degree lines, north and south, temperatures for thousands of years hadn't gone outside the 254-332 degrees (absolute) range, and that this belt had long growing seasons where temperatures ranged, from 284 to 302 degrees absolute: the 
\'93bonanza\'94 range for terraform life\'85 once they solved the water problem.
\par When will we solve it? the Fremen asked. When will we see Arrakis as a paradise?
\par In the manner of a teacher answering a child who has asked the sum of 2 plus 2, Kynes told them: \'93From three hundred to five hundred years.\'94
\par A lesser folk might have howled in dismay. But the Fremen had learned patience from men with whips. It was a bit longer than they had anticipated, but they all could see that the blessed day was coming. They tightened thei
r sashes and went back to work. Somehow, the disappointment made the prospect of paradise more real.
\par The concern on Arrakis was not with water, but with moisture. Pets were almost unknown, stock animals rare. Some smugglers employed the domesticated desert
 ass, the kulon, but the water price was high even when the beasts were fitted with modified stillsuits.
\par Kynes thought of installing reduction plants to recover water from the hydrogen and oxygen locked in native rock, but the energy-cost factor was far to
o high. The polar caps (disregarding the false sense of water security they gave the pyons) held far too small an amount for his project\'85
 and he already suspected where the water had to be. There was that consistent increase of moisture at median altitudes, and in certain winds. There was that primary clue in the air balance \endash 
 23 per cent oxygen, 75.4 per cent nitrogen and .023 per cent carbon dioxide \endash  with the trace gases taking up the rest.
\par There was a rare native root plant that grew above the 2,500 met
er level in the northern temperate zone. A tuber two meters long yielded half a liter of water. And there were the terraform desert plants: the tougher ones showed signs of thriving if planted in depressions lined with dew precipitators.
\par Then Kynes saw the salt pan.
\par His \lquote thopter, flying between stations far out on the bled, was blown off course by a storm. When the storm passed, there was the pan \endash  a giant oval depression some three hundred kilometers on the long axis \endash 
 a glaring white surprise in the open desert. Kynes landed, tasted the pan's storm-cleaned surface. 
\par Salt.
\par Now, he was certain.
\par There'd been open water on Arrakis \endash  once. He began reexamining the evidence of the dry wells where trickles of water had appeared and vanished, never to return.
\par Kynes set his newly trained Fremen limnologists to work: their chief clue, leathery scraps of matter sometimes found with the spice-mass after a blow. This had been ascribed to a fictional \'93sandtrout\'94
 in Fremen folk stories. As facts grew into evidence, a creature emerged to explain these leathery scraps \endash  a sandswimmer that blocked off water into fertile pockets within the porous lower strata below the 280\'b0 (absolute) line.
\par This \'93water-stealer\'94 died by the millions in each spice-blow. A five-degree change in t
emperature could kill it. The few survivors entered a semidormant cyst-hibernation to emerge in six years as small (about three meters long) sandworms. Of these, only a few avoided their larger brothers and pre-spice water pockets to emerge into maturity 
as the giant shai-hulud. (Water is poisonous to shai-hulud as the Fremen had long known from drowning the rare \'93stunted worm\'94 of the Minor Erg to produce the awareness-spectrum narcotic they call Water of Life. The \'93stunted worm\'94
 is a primitive form of shai-hulud that reaches a length of only about nine meters.)
\par Now they had the circular relationship: little maker to pre-spice mass; little maker to shai-hulud; shai-hulud to scatter the spice upon which fed microscopic creatures called sand plankton; the sand
 plankton, food for shai-hulud, growing, burrowing, becoming little makers.
\par Kynes and his people turned their attention from these great relationships and focused now on micro-ecology. First, the climate: the sand surface often reached temperatures of 344\'b0 to 350\'b0 (absolute). A foot below ground it might be 55\'b0
 cooler; a foot above ground, 25\'b0 cooler. Leaves or black shade could provide another 18\'b0 of cooling. Next, the nutrients: sand of Arrakis is mostly a product of worm digestion; dust (the truly omnipr
esent problem there) is produced by the constant surface creep, the \'93saltation\'94
 movement of sand. Coarse grains are found on the downwind sides of dunes. The windward side is packed smooth and hard. Old dunes are yellow (oxidized), young dunes are the color of the parent rock \endash  usually gray.
\par Downwind sides of old dunes provided the first plantation areas. The Fremen aimed first for a cycle of poverty grass with peatlike hair cilia to intertwine, mat and fix the dunes by depriving the wind of its big weapon: movable grains.
\par Adaptive zones were laid out in the deep south far from Harkonnen watchers. The mutated poverty grasses were planted first along the downwind (slipface) of the chosen dunes that stood across the path of the prevailing westerlies. With the 
downwind face anchored, the windward face grew higher and higher and the grass was moved to keep pace. Giant sifs (long dunes with sinuous crest) of more than 1,500 meters height were produced this way.
\par When barrier dunes reached sufficient height, the windward faces were planted with tougher sword grasses. Each structure on a base about six times as thick as its height was anchored \endash  \'93fixed.\'94 
\par Now, they came in with deeper plantings \endash  ephemerals (chenopods, pigweeds, and amaranth to begin), then scotch broom, low lupine, vine eucalyptus (the type adapted for Caladan's northern reaches), dwarf tamarisk, shore pine \endash 
 then the true desert growths: candelilla, saguaro, and bis-naga, the barrel cactus. Where it would grow, they introduced camel sage, onion grass
, gobi feather grass, wild alfalfa, burrow bush, sand verbena, evening primrose, incense bush, smoke tree, creosote bush.
\par They turned then to the necessary animal life \endash  burrowing creatures to open the soil and aerate it: kit fox, kangaroo mouse, desert hare, sand terrapin\'85
 and the predators to keep them in check: desert hawk, dwarf owl, eagle and desert owl; and insects to fill the niches these couldn't reach: scorpion, centipede, trapdoor spider, the biting wasp and the wormfly\'85 and the desert bat to keep
 watch on these.
\par Now came the crucial test: date palms, cotton, melons, coffee, medicinals \endash  more than 200 selected food plant types to test and adapt.
\par \'93The thing the ecologically illiterate don't realize about an ecosystem,\'94 Kynes said, \'93is that it's a sy
stem. A system! A system maintains a certain fluid stability that can be destroyed by a misstep in just one niche. A system has order, a flowing from point to point. If something dams that flow, order collapses. The untrained might miss that collapse unti
l it was too late. That's why the highest function of ecology is the understanding of consequences.\'94 
\par Had they achieved a system?
\par Kynes and his people watched and waited. The Fremen now knew what he meant by an open-end prediction to five hundred years.
\par A report came up from the palmaries:
\par At the desert edge of the plantings, the sand plankton is being poisoned through interaction with the new forms of life. The reason: protein incompatibility. Poisonous water was forming there which the Arrakis life would n
ot touch. A barren zone surrounded the plantings and even shai-hulud would not invade it.
\par Kynes went down to the palmaries himself \endash  a twenty-thumper trip (in a palanquin like a wounded man or Reverend Mother because he never became a sandrider). He tested
 the barren zone (it stank to heaven) and came up with a bonus, a gift from Arrakis. 
\par The addition of sulfur and fixed nitrogen converted the barren zone to a rich plant bed for terraform life. The plantings could be advanced at will!
\par \'93Does this change the timing?\'94 the Fremen asked.
\par Kynes went back to his planetary formulae. Windtrap figures were fairly secure by then. He was generous with his allowances, knowing he couldn't draw neat lines around ecological problems. A certain amount of plant cover had to 
be set aside to hold dunes in place; a certain amount for foodstuffs (both human and animal); a certain amount to lock moisture in root systems and to feed water out into surrounding parched areas. They'd mapped the roving cold spots on the open bled by t
his time. These had to be figured into the formulae. Even shai-hulud had a place in the charts. He must never be destroyed, else spice wealth would end. But his inner digestive \'93factory,\'94
 with its enormous concentrations of aldehydes and acids, was a giant source of oxygen. A medium worm (about 200 meters long) discharged into the atmosphere as much oxygen as ten square kilometers of green growing photosynthesis surface.
\par He had the Guild to consider. The spice bribe to the Guild for preventing weather satellites and other watchers in the skies of Arrakis already had reached major proportions.
\par Nor could the Fremen be ignored. Especially the Fremen, with their windtraps and irregular landholdings organized around water supply; the Fremen with their new ecologic
al literacy and their dream of cycling vast areas of Arrakis through a prairie phase into forest cover.
\par From the charts emerged a figure. Kynes reported it. Three per cent. If they could get three per cent of the green plant element on Arrakis involved in forming carbon compounds, they'd have their self-sustaining cycle.
\par \'93But how long?\'94 the Fremen demanded. 
\par \'93Oh, that: about three hundred and fifty years.\'94 
\par So it was true as this umma had said in the beginning: the thing would not come in the lifetime of any man now living, nor in the lifetime of their grandchildren eight times removed, but it would come.
\par The work continued: building, planting, digging, training the children.
\par Then Kynes-the-Umma was killed in the cave-in at Plaster Basin.
\par By this time his so
n, Liet-Kynes, was nineteen, a full Fremen and sandrider who had killed more than a hundred Harkonnens. The Imperial appointment for which the elder Kynes already had applied in the name of his son was delivered as a matter of course. The rigid class stru
cture of the faufreluches had its well-ordered purpose here. The son had been trained to follow the father.
\par The course had been set by this time, the Ecological-Fremen were aimed along their way. Liet-Kynes had only to watch and nudge and spy upon the Harkonnens\'85 until the day his planet was afflicted by a Hero.
\par 
\par 
\par Appendix II: The Religion of Dune
\par 
\par Before the coming of Muad'Dib, the Fremen of Arrakis practiced a religion whose roots in the Maometh Saari are there for any scholar to see. Many have traced the 
extensive borrowings from other religions. The most common example is the Hymn to Water, a direct copy from the Orange Catholic Liturgical Manual, calling for rain clouds which Arrakis had never seen. But there are more profound points of accord between t
he Kitab al-Ibar of the Fremen and the teachings of Bible, Ilm, and Fiqh.
\par Any comparison of the religious beliefs dominant in the Imperium up to the time of Muad'Dib must start with the major forces which shaped those beliefs:
\par 1. The followers of the Fourteen Sages, whose Book was the Orange Catholic Bible, and whose views are expressed in the Commentaries and other literature produced by the Commission of Ecumenical Translators. (C.E.T.);
\par 2. The Bene Gesserit, who privately denied they were a religious orde
r, but who operated behind an almost impenetrable screen of ritual mysticism, and whose training, whose symbolism, organization, and internal teaching methods were almost wholly religious; 
\par 3. The agnostic ruling class (including the Guild) for whom religion was a kind of puppet show to amuse the populace and keep it docile, and who believed essentially that all phenomena \endash  even religious phenomena \endash 
 could be reduced to mechanical explanations;
\par 4. The so-called Ancient Teachings \endash  including those preserved 
by the Zensunni Wanderers from the first, second, and third Islamic movements; the Navachristianity of Chusuk, the Buddislamic Variants of the types dominant at Lankiveil and Sikun, the Blend Books of the Mahayana Lankavatara, the Zen Hekiganshu of III De
l
ta Pavonis, the Tawrah and Talmudic Zabur surviving on Salusa Secundus, the pervasive Obeah Ritual, the Muadh Quran with its pure Ilm and Fiqh preserved among the pundi rice farmers of Caladan, the Hindu outcroppings found all through the universe in litt
le pockets of insulated pyons, and finally, the Butlerian Jihad.
\par There is a fifth force which shaped religious belief, but its effect is so universal and profound that it deserves to stand alone.
\par This is, of course, space travel \endash  and in any discussion of religion, it deserves to be written thus:
\par 
\par SPACE TRAVEL!
\par 
\par Mankind's movement through deep space placed a unique stamp on religion during the one hundred and ten centuries that preceded the Butlerian Jihad. To begin with, early space travel, although widespr
ead, was largely unregulated, slow, and uncertain, and, before the Guild monopoly, was accomplished by a hodgepodge of methods. The first space experiences, poorly communicated and subject to extreme distortion, were a wild inducement to mystical speculat
ion.
\par Immediately, space gave a different flavor and sense to ideas of Creation. That difference is seen even in the highest religious achievements of the period. All through religion, the feeling of the sacred was touched by anarchy from the outer dark.
\par It was as though Jupiter in all his descendant forms retreated into the maternal darkness to be superseded by a female immanence filled with ambiguity and with a face of many terrors.
\par The ancient formulae intertwined, tangled together as they were fitted to the needs of new conquests and new heraldic symbols. It was a time of struggle between beast-demons on the one side and the old prayers and invocations on the other.
\par There was never a clear decision.
\par During this period, it was said that Genesis was reinterpreted, permitting God to say:
\par \'93Increase and multiply, and fill the universe, and subdue it, and rule over all manner of strange beasts and living creatures in the infinite airs, on the infinite earths and beneath them.\'94 
\par It was a time of sorceresses whose powers were real. The measure of them is seen in the fact they never boasted how they grasped the firebrand.
\par Then came the Butlerian Jihad \endash  two generations of chaos. The god of machine-logic was overthrown among the masses and a new concept was raised:
\par \'93Man may not be replaced.\'94
\par Those two generations of violence were a thalamic pause for all humankind. Men looked at their gods and their rituals and saw that both were filled with that most terrible of all equations: fear over ambition.
\par Hesitantly, the leade
rs of religions whose followers had spilled the blood of billions began meeting to exchange views. It was a move encouraged by the Spacing Guild, which was beginning to build its monopoly over all interstellar travel, and by the Bene Gesserit who were ban
ding the sorceresses.
\par Out of those first ecumenical meetings came two major developments: 
\par 1. The realization that all religions had at least one common commandment: \'93Thou shall not disfigure the soul.\'94 
\par 2. The Commission of Ecumenical Translators.
\par C.E.T. convened on a neutral island of Old Earth, spawning ground of the mother religions. They met \'93in the common belief that there exists a Divine Essence in the universe.\'94
 Every faith with more than a million followers was represented, and they reached a surprisingly immediate agreement on the statement of their common goal:
\par \'93We are here to remove a primary weapon from the hands of disputant religions. That weapon \endash  the claim to possession of the one and only revelation.\'94
\par Jubilation at this \'93sign of profound accord\'94
 proved premature. For more than a standard year, that statement was the only announcement from C.E.T. Men spoke bitterly of the delay. Troubadours composed witty, biting songs about the one hundred and twenty-one \'93Old Cranks\'94
 as the C.E.T. delegates came to be called. (The name arose from a ribald joke which played on the C.E.T. initials and called the delegates \'93Cranks-Effing-Turners.") One of the songs, \'93Brown Repose,\'94
 has undergone periodic revival and is popular even today:
\par 
\par \'93Consider leis. 
\par Brown repose \endash  and 
\par The tragedy 
\par In all of those 
\par Cranks! All those Cranks! 
\par So laze \endash  so laze 
\par Through all your days. 
\par Time has toll'd for 
\par M'Lord Sandwich!\'94
\par 
\par Occasional rumors leaked out of the C.E.T. sessions. It was said they were comparing texts and, irresponsibly, the texts were named. Such rumors inevitably provoked anti-ecumenism riots and, of course, inspired new witticisms. 
\par Two years passed\'85 three years.
\par The Commissioners, nine of their original number having died and been replaced, paused to observe formal installation of the replacements and announced they were laboring to produce one book, weeding out \'93all the pathological symptoms\'94
 of the religious past.
\par \'93We are producing an instrument of Love to be played in all ways,\'94 they said.
\par Many consider it odd that this statement provoked the worst outbreaks of violence against ecumenism. Twenty delegates were recalled by their congregations. One committed suicide by stealing a space frigate and diving it into the sun.
\par Historians estimate the riots took eight
y million lives. That works out to about six thousand for each world then in the Landsraad League. Considering the unrest of the time, this may not be an excessive estimate, although any pretense to real accuracy in the figure must be just that \endash 
 pretense. Communication between worlds was at one of its lowest ebbs.
\par The troubadours, quite naturally, had a field day. A popular musical comedy of the period had one of the C.E.T. delegates sitting on a white sand beach beneath a palm tree singing:
\par 
\par \'93For God, woman and the splendor of love 
\par We dally here sans fears or cares.
\par Troubadour! Troubadour, sing another melody 
\par For God, Woman and the splendor of love!\'94
\par 
\par Riots and comedy are but symptoms of the times, profoundly revealing. They betray the psychological tone, the deep uncertainties\'85 and the striving for something better, plus the fear that nothing would come of it all.
\par The major dams against anarchy in these times were the embryo Guild, the Bene Gesserit and the Landsraad, which continued its 2,000-year recor
d of meeting in spite of the severest obstacles. The Guild's part appears clear: they gave free transport for all Landsraad and C.E.T. business. The Bene Gesserit role is more obscure. Certainly, this is the time in which they consolidated their hold upon
 
the sorceresses, explored the subtle narcotics, developed prana-bindu training and conceived the Missionaria Protectiva, that black arm of superstition. But it is also the period that saw the composing of the Litany against Fear and the assembly of the Az
har Book, that bibliographic marvel that preserves the great secrets of the most ancient faiths.
\par Ingsley's comment is perhaps the only one possible: 
\par \'93Those were times of deep paradox.\'94
\par For almost seven years, then, C.E.T. labored. And as their seventh anniversary approached, they prepared the human universe for a momentous announcement. On that seventh anniversary, they unveiled the Orange Catholic Bible.
\par \'93Here is a work with dignity and meaning,\'94 they said. \'93Here is a way to make humanity aware of itself as a total creation of God.\'94 
\par The men of C.E.T. were likened to archeologists of ideas, inspired by God in the grandeur of rediscovery. It was said they had brought to light \'93the vitality of great ideals overlaid by the deposits of centuries,\'94 that they had \'93
sharpened the moral imperatives that come out of a religious conscience.\'94
\par With the O.C. Bible, C.E.T. presented the Liturgical Manual and the Commentaries \endash  in many respects a more remarkable work, not only because of its brevity (less than half the size
 of the O.C. Bible), but also because of its candor and blend of self-pity and self-righteousness.
\par The beginning is an obvious appeal to the agnostic rulers.
\par \'93Men, finding no answers to the sunnan [the ten thousand religious questions from the Shari-ah] no
w apply their own reasoning. All men seek to be enlightened. Religion is but the most ancient and honorable way in which men have striven to make sense out of God's universe. Scientists seek the lawfulness of events. It is the task of Religion to fit man 
into this lawfulness.\'94 
\par In their conclusion, though, the Commentaries set a harsh tone that very likely foretold their fate.
\par \'93Much that was called religion has carried an unconscious attitude of hostility toward life. True religion must teach that life is f
illed with joys pleasing to the eye of God, that knowledge without action is empty. All men must see that the teaching of religion by rules and rote is largely a hoax. The proper teaching is recognized with ease. You can know it without fail because it aw
akens within you that sensation which tells you this is something you've always known.\'94
\par There was an odd sense of calm as the presses and shigawire imprinters rolled and the O.C. Bible spread out through the worlds. Some interpreted this as a sign from God, an omen of unity.
\par But even the C.E.T. delegates betrayed the fiction of that calm as they returned to their respective congregations. Eighteen of them were lynched within two months. Fifty-three recanted within the year.
\par The O.C. Bible was denounced as a work produced by \'93the hubris of reason.\'94
 It was said that its pages were filled with a seductive interest in logic. Revisions that catered to popular bigotry began appearing. These revisions leaned on accepted symbolisms (Cross, Crescent, Feather Rattle, t
he Twelve Saints, the thin Buddha, and the like) and it soon became apparent that the ancient superstitions and beliefs had not been absorbed by the new ecumenism.
\par Halloway's label for C.E.T.'s seven-year effort \endash  \'93Galactophasic Determinism\'94 \endash  was snapped up by eager billions who interpreted the initials G.D. as \'93God-Damned.\'94
\par C.E.T. Chairman Toure Bomoko, an Ulema of the Zensunnis and one of the fourteen delegates who never recanted ("The Fourteen Sages\'94 of popular history), appeared to admit finally the C.E.T. had erred.
\par \'93We shouldn't have tried to create new symbols,\'94 he said. \'93We should've realized we weren't supposed to introduce uncertainties into accepted belief, that we weren't supposed to stir up curiosity about God. We are daily confronted by the te
rrifying instability of all things human, yet we permit our religions to grow more rigid and controlled, more conforming and oppressive. What is this shadow across the highway of Divine Command? It is a warning that institutions endure, that symbols endur
e when their meaning is lost, that there is no summa of all attainable knowledge.\'94 
\par The bitter double edge in this \'93admission\'94 did not escape Bomoko's critics and he was forced soon afterward to flee into exile, his life dependent upon the Guild's pledge of
 secrecy. He reportedly died on Tupile, honored and beloved, his last words: \'93Religion must remain an outlet for people who say to themselves, \lquote I am not the kind of person I want to be.\rquote 
 It must never sink into an assemblage of the self-satisfied.\'94
\par It is pleasant to think that Bomoko understood the prophecy in his words: \'93Institutions endure.\'94 Ninety generations later, the O.C. Bible and the Commentaries permeated the religious universe.
\par When Paul-Muad'Dib stood with his right hand on the rock shrine enclosing his father's skull (the right hand of the blessed, not the left hand of the damned) he quoted word for word from \'93Bomoko's Legacy\'94 \endash 
\par \'93You who have defeated us say to yourselves that Babylon is fallen and its works have been overturned. I say to you still that man remains on trial, each man in his own dock. Each man is a little war.\'94
\par The Fremen said of Muad'Dib that he was like Abu Zide whose frigate defied the Guild and rode one day \lquote there\rquote  and back. \lquote There\rquote  used in this way translates directly from the
 Fremen mythology as the land of the ruh-spirit, the alam al-mithal where all limitations are removed.
\par The parallel between this and the Kwisatz Haderach is readily seen. The Kwisatz Haderach that the Sisterhood sought through its breeding program was interpreted as \'93The shortening of the way\'94 or \'93The one who can be two places simultaneously.\'94 

\par But both of these interpretations can be shown to stem directly from the Commentaries: \'93When law and religious duty are one, your selfdom encloses the universe.\'94
\par Of himself, Muad'Dib said: \'93I am a net in the sea of time, free to sweep future and past. I am a moving membrane from whom no possibility can escape.\'94
\par These thoughts are all one and the same and they harken to 22 Kalima in the O.C. Bible where it says: \'93Whether a thought is spoken or not it is a real thing and has powers of reality.\'94 
\par It is when we get into Muad'Dib's own commentaries in \'93The Pillars of the Universe\'94 as interpreted by his holy men, the Qizara Tafwid, that we see his real debt to C.E.T. and Fremen-Zensunni.
\par 
\par Muad'Dib: \'93Law and duty are one; so be it. But remember these limitations \endash  Thus are you never fully self-conscious. Thus do you remain immersed in the communal tau. Thus are you always less than an individual.\'94 
\par O.C. Bible: Identical wording. (61 Revelations.) 
\par Muad'Dib: \'93Religion often partakes of the myth of progress that shields us from the terrors of an uncertain future.\'94
\par C.E.T. Commentaries: Identical wording. (The Azhar Book traces this statement to the first century religious writer, Neshou; through a paraphrase.)
\par Muad'Dib: \'93If a child, an untrained person, an ignorant person, or an insane person incites trouble, it is the fault of authority for not predicting and preventing that trouble. \'93
\par O.C. Bible: \'93Any sin can be ascribed, at least in part, to a natural bad tendency that is an extenuating circumstance acceptable to God.\'94 (The Azhar Book traces this to the ancient Semitic Tawra.) 
\par Muad'Dib: \'93Reach forth thy hand and eat what God has provided thee; and when thou are replenished, praise the Lord.\'94 
\par O.C. Bible: a paraphrase with identical meaning. (The Azhar Book traces this in slightly different form to First Islam.) 
\par Muad'Dib: \'93Kindness is the beginning of cruelty.\'94 
\par Fremen Kitab al-Ibar: \'93The weight of a kindly God is a fearful thing
. Did not God give us the burning sun (Al-Lat)? Did not God give us the Mothers of Moisture (Reverend Mothers)? Did not God give us Shaitan (Iblis, Satan)? From Shaitan did we not get the hurtfulness of speed?\'94
\par (This is the source of the Fremen saying: \'93Speed comes from Shaitan.\'94
 Consider: for every one hundred calories of heat generated by exercise [speed] the body evaporates about six ounces of perspiration. The Fremen word for perspiration is bakka or tears and, in one pronunciation, translates: \'93The lif
e essence that Shaitan squeezes from your soul.")
\par 
\par Muad'Dib's arrival is called \'93religiously timely\'94 by Koneywell, but timing had little to do with it. As Muad'Dib himself said: \'93I am here; so\'85 \'94
\par It is, however, vital to an understanding of Muad'Dib's reli
gious impact that you never lose sight of one fact: the Fremen were a desert people whose entire ancestry was accustomed to hostile landscapes. Mysticism isn't difficult when you survive each second by surmounting open hostility. \'93You are there 
\endash  so\'85 \'94
\par With such a tradition, suffering is accepted \endash 
 perhaps as unconscious punishment, but accepted. And it's well to note that Fremen ritual gives almost complete freedom from guilt feelings. This isn't necessarily because their law and religion were identical, m
aking disobedience a sin. It's likely closer to the mark to say they cleansed themselves of guilt easily because their everyday existence required brutal judgments (often deadly) which in a softer land would burden men with unbearable guilt.
\par This is likely
 one of the roots of Fremen emphasis on superstition (disregarding the Missionaria Protectiva's ministrations). What matter that whistling sands are an omen? What matter that you must make the sign of the fist when first you see First Moon? A man's flesh 
is his own and his water belongs to the tribe \endash 
 and the mystery of life isn't a problem to solve but a reality to experience. Omens help you remember this. And because you are here, because you have the religion, victory cannot evade you in the end.
\par As the Bene Gesserit taught for centuries, long before they ran afoul of the Fremen:
\par \'93When religion and politics ride the same cart, when that cart is driven by a living holy man (baraka), nothing can stand in their path.\'94
\par 
\par Appendix III: Report on Bene Gesserit Motives and Purposes
\par 
\par Here follows an excerpt from the Summa prepared by her own agents at the request of the Lady Jessica immediately after the Arrakis Affair. The candor of this report amplifies its value far beyond the ordinary.
\par 
\par Because the Bene Gesserit operated for centuries behind the blind of a semi-mystic school while carrying on their selective breeding program among humans, we tend to award them with more status than they appear to deserve. Analysis of their \'93
trial of fact\'94 on the Arrakis Affair betrays the school's profound ignorance of its own role.
\par It may be argued that the Bene Gesserit could examine only such facts as were available to them and had no direct access to the person of the Prophet Muad'Dib. But the school had surmounted greater obstacles and its error here goes deeper.
\par The Bene Gesserit program had as its target the breeding of a person they labeled \'93Kwisatz Haderach,\'94 a term signifying \'93one who can be many places at once.\'94 In simpler terms, what they sought was a human with mental
 powers permitting him to understand and use higher order dimensions.
\par They were breeding for a super-Mentat, a human computer with some of the prescient abilities found in Guild navigators. Now, attend these facts carefully:
\par Muad'Dib, born Paul Atreides, w
as the son of the Duke Leto, a man whose bloodline had been watched carefully for more than a thousand years. The Prophet's mother, Lady Jessica, was a natural daughter of the Baron Vladimir Harkonnen and carried gene-markers whose supreme importance to t
he breeding program was known for almost two thousand years. She was a Bene Gesserit bred and trained, and should have been a willing tool of the project.
\par The Lady Jessica was ordered to produce an Atreides daughter. The plan was to inbreed this daughter wi
th Feyd-Rautha Harkonnen, a nephew of the Baron Vladimir, with the high probability of a Kwisatz Haderach from that union. Instead, for reasons she confesses have never been completely clear to her, the concubine Lady Jessica defied her orders and bore a 
son.
\par This alone should have alerted the Bene Gesserit to the possibility that a wild variable had entered their scheme. But there were other far more important indications that they virtually ignored:
\par 1. As a youth, Paul Atreides showed ability to predict the future. He was known to have had prescient visions that were accurate, penetrating, and defied four-dimensional explanation.
\par 2. The Reverend Mother Gaius Helen Mohiam, Bene Gesserit Proctor who tested Paul's humanity when he was fifteen, deposes that he surmounted more agony in the test than any other human of record. Yet she failed to make special note of this in her report!

\par 3. When Family Atreides moved to the planet Arrakis, the Fremen population there hailed the young Paul as a prophet, \'93the voice from the outer world.\'94
 The Bene Gesserit were well aware that the rigors of such a planet as Arrakis with its totality of desert landscape, its absolute lack of open water, its emphasis on the most primitive necessities for survival, inevitably produces a hi
gh proportion of sensitives. Yet this Fremen reaction and the obvious element of the Arrakeen diet high in spice were glossed over by Bene Gesserit observers.
\par 4. When the Harkonnens and the soldier-fanatics of the Padishah Emperor reoccupied Arrakis, killi
ng Paul's father and most of the Atreides troops, Paul and his mother disappeared. But almost immediately there were reports of a new religious leader among the Fremen, a man called Muad'Dib, who again was hailed as \'93the voice from the outer world.\'94
 The reports stated clearly that he was accompanied by a new Reverend Mother of the Sayyadina Rite \'93who is the woman who bore him.\'94
 Records available to the Bene Gesserit stated in plain terms that the Fremen legends of the Prophet contained these words: \'93He shall be born of a Bene Gesserit witch.\'94
\par (It may be argued here that the Bene Gesserit sent their Missionaria Protectiva onto Arrakis centuries earlier to implant something like this legend as safeguard should any members of the school be trapped there and req
uire sanctuary, and that this legend of \'93the voice from the outer world\'94
 was properly to be ignored because it appeared to be the standard Bene Gesserit ruse. But this would be true only if you granted that the Bene Gesserit were correct in ignoring the other clues about Paul-Muad'Dib.)
\par 5. When the Arrakis Affair boiled up, the Spacing Guild made overtures to the Bene Gesserit. The Guild hinted that its navigators, who use the spice drug of Arrakis to produce the limited prescience necessary for guiding spaceships through the void, were 
\'93bothered about the future\'94 or saw \'93problems on the horizon.\'94 This could only mean they saw a nexus, a meeting place of countless delicate decisions, beyond which the path was hidden from the prescient eye. This was a clear i
ndication that some agency was interfering with higher order dimensions!
\par (A few of the Bene Gesserit had long been aware that the Guild could not interfere directly with the vital spice source because Guild navigators already were dealing in their own inep
t way with higher order dimensions, at least to the point where they recognized that the slightest misstep they made on Arrakis could be catastrophic. It was a known fact that Guild navigators could predict no way to take control of the spice without prod
ucing just such a nexus. The obvious conclusion was that someone of higher order powers was taking control of the spice source, yet the Bene Gesserit missed this point entirely!)
\par In the face of these facts, one is led to the inescapable conclusion that the inefficient Bene Gesserit behavior in this affair was a product of an even higher plan of which they were completely unaware!
\par 
\par Appendix IV: The Almanak en-Ashraf (Selected Excerpts of the Noble Houses)
\par 
\par   SHADDAM IV (10,134-10,202) 
\par The Padishah Emperor, 8
1st of his line (House Corrino) to occupy the Golden Lion Throne, reigned from 10,156 (date his father, Elrood IX, succumbed to chaumurky) until replaced by the 10,196 Regency set up in the name of his eldest daughter, Irulan. His reign is noted chiefly f
o
r the Arrakis Revolt, blamed by many historians on Shaddam IV's dalliance with Court functions and the pomp of office. The ranks of Bursegs were doubled in the first sixteen years of his reign. Appropriations for Sardaukar training went down steadily in t
h
e final thirty years before the Arrakis Revolt. He had five daughters (Irulan, Chalice, Wensicia, Josifa, and Rugi) and no legal sons. Four of the daughters accompanied him into retirement. His wife, Anirul, a Bene Gesserit of Hidden Rank, died in 10,176.

\par   LETO ATREIDES (10,140-10,191) 
\par A distaff cousin of the Corrinos, he is frequently referred to as the Red Duke. House Atreides ruled Caladan as a siridar-fief for twenty generations until pressured into the move to Arrakis. He is known chiefly as the fath
er of Duke Paul Muad'Dib, the Umma Regent. The remains of Duke Leto occupy the \'93Skull Tomb\'94 on Arrakis. His death is attributed to the treachery of a Suk doctor, and is an act laid to the Siridar-Baron, Vladimir Harkonnen. 
\par   LADY JESSICA (Hon. Atreides) (10,154-10,256) 
\par A natural daughter (Bene Gesserit reference) of the Siridar-Baron Vladimir Harkonnen. Mother of Duke Paul Muad'Dib. She graduated from the Wallach IX B.G. School. 
\par   LADY ALIA ATREIDES (10,191-   ) 
\par Legal daughter of Duke Leto-Atreides and 
his formal concubine, Lady Jessica. Lady Alia was born on Arrakis about eight months after Duke Leto's death. Prenatal exposure to an awareness-spectrum narcotic is the reason generally given for Bene Gesserit references to her as \'93Accursed One.\'94
 She is known in popular history as St. Alia or St. Alia-of-the-Knife. (For a detailed history, see St. Alia, Huntress of a Billion Worlds by Pander Oulson.) 
\par   VLADIMIR HARKONNEN (10,110-10,193)
\par Commonly referred to as Baron Harkonnen, his title is officially Sirid
ar (planetary governor) Baron. Vladimir Harkonnen is the direct-line male descendant of the Bashar Abulurd Harkonnen who was banished for cowardice after the Battle of Corrin. The return of House Harkonnen to power generally is ascribed to adroit manipula
tion of the whale fur market and later consolidation with melange wealth from Arrakis. The Siridar-Baron died on Arrakis during the Revolt. Title passed briefly to the na-Baron, Feyd-Rautha Harkonnen. 
\par   COUNT HASIMIR FENRING (10,133-10,225) 
\par A distaff cous
in of House Corrino, he was a childhood companion of Shaddam IV. (The frequently discredited Pirate History of Corrino related the curious story that Fenring was responsible for the chaumurky which disposed of Elrood IX.) All accounts agree that Fenring w
a
s the closest friend Shaddam IV possessed. The Imperial chores carried out by Count Fenring included that of Imperial Agent on Arrakis during the Harkonnen regime there and later Siridar-Absentia of Caladan. He joined Shaddam IV in retirement on Salusa Se
cundus.
\par   COUNT GLOSSU RABBAN (10,132-10,193) 
\par Glossu Rabban, Count of Lankiveil, was the eldest nephew of Vladimir Harkonnen. Glossu Rabban and Feyd-Rautha Rabban (who took the name Harkonnen when chosen for the Siridar-Baron's household) were legal sons o
f the Siridar-Baron's youngest demibrother, Abulurd. Abulurd renounced the Harkonnen name and all rights to the title when given the subdistrict governorship of Rabban-Lankiveil. Rabban was a distaff name.
\par 
\par 
\par Terminology of the Imperium
\par 
\par In studying the Imperium, Arrakis, and the whole culture which produced Muad'Dib, many unfamiliar terms occur. To increase understanding is a laudable goal, hence the definitions and explanations given below.
\par 
\par ABA: loose robe worn by Fremen women; usually black. 
\par ACH: left turn: a worm-steersman's call.
\par ADAB: the demanding memory that comes upon you of itself. 
\par AKARSO: a plant native to Sikun (of 70 Ophiuchi A) characterized by almost oblong leaves. Its green and white stripes indicate the constant multiple, condition of parallel active and dormant chlorophyll regions.
\par ALAM AL-MITHAL: the mystical world of similitudes where all physical limitations are removed.
\par AL-LAT: mankind's original sun; by usage: any planet's primary. 
\par AMPOLIROS: the legendary \'93Flying Dutchman\'94 of space. 
\par AMTAL or AMTAL RULE: a common rule on primitive worlds under which something is tested to determine its limits or defects. Commonly: testing to destruction.
\par AQL: the test of reason. Originally, the \'93Seven Mystic Questions\'94 beginning: \'93Who is it that thinks?\'94 
\par ARRAKEEN: first settlement on Arrakis; long-time seat of planetary government.
\par ARRAKIS: the planet known as Dune; third planet of Canopus. 
\par ASSASSINS\rquote  HANDBOOK: Third-century compilation of poisons commonly used in a War of Assassins. Later expanded to include those deadly devices permitted under the Guild Peace and Great Convention.
\par AULIYA: In the Zensunni Wanderers\rquote  religion, the female at the left hand of God; God's handmaiden.
\par AUMAS: poison administered in food. (Specifically: poison in solid food.) In some dialects: Chaumas. 
\par AYAT: the signs of life. (See Burhan.)
\par 
\par BAKKA: in Fremen legend, the weeper who mourns for all mankind.
\par BAKLAWA: a heavy pastry made with date syrup. 
\par BALISET: a nine-stringed musical instrument, lineal descendant of the zither, tuned to the Chusuk scale and played by strumming. Favorite instrument of Imperial troubadours.
\par BARADYE PISTOL: a static-charge dust gun developed on Arrakis for laying down a large dye marker area on sand. 
\par BARAKA: a living holy man of magical powers. 
\par BASHAR (often Colonel Bashar): an officer of the Sardaukar a fractional point above Colonel in the standardized military classification. Rank created for military ruler of a planetary subdistrict. (Bashar of the Corps is a title reserved strictly for mil
itary use.) 
\par BATTLE LANGUAGE: any special language of restricted etymology developed for clear-speech communication in warfare. 
\par BEDWINE: see Ichwan Bedwine.
\par BELA TEGEUSE: fifth planet of Kuentsing: third stopping place of the Zensunni (Fremen) forced migration.
\par BENE GESSERIT: the ancient school of mental and physical training established primarily for female students after the Butlerian Jihad destroyed the so-called \'93thinking machines\'94 and robots.
\par B.G.: idiomatic for Bene Gesserit except when used with a date. With a date it signifies Before Guild and identifies the Imperial dating system based on the genesis of the Spacing Guild's monopoly.
\par BHOTANIJIB: See Chakobsa.
\par BI-LA KAIFA: Amen. (Literally: \'93Nothing further need be explained.") 
\par BINDU: relating to the human nervous system, especially to nerve training. Often expressed as Bindu-nervature. (See Prana.) 
\par BINDU SUSPENSION: a special form of catalepsis, self-induced. 
\par BLED: flat, open desert.
\par BOURKA: insulated mantle worn by Fremen in the open desert. 
\par BURHAN: the proofs of life. (Commonly: the ayat and burhan of life. See Ayat.) 
\par BURSEG: a commanding general of the Sardaukar. 
\par BUTLERIAN JIHAD; see Jihad, Butlerian (also Great Revolt).
\par 
\par CAID: Sardaukar officer rank given to a military official whose duties call mostly for dealings with civilians; a military governorship over a full planetary district; above the rank of Bashar but not equal to a Burseg.
\par CALADAN: third planet of Delta Pavonis; birthworld of Paul-Muad'Dib.
\par CANTO and RESPONDU: an invocation rite, part of the panoplia propheticus of the Missionaria Protectiva.
\par CARRYALL: a flying wing (commonly \'93wing"), the aerial workhorse of Arrakis, used to transport large spice mining, hunting, and refining equipment.
\par CATCHPOCKET: any stillsuit pocket where filtered water is caught and stored.
\par CHAKOBSA: the so-called \'93magnetic language\'94 derived in part from the ancient Bhotani (Bhotani Jib \endash  jib meaning dialect). A collection of ancient dialects modified by needs of secrecy, but chiefly the hunting language of t
he Bhotani, the hired assassins of the first Wars of Assassins.
\par CHAUMAS (Aumas in some dialects): poison in solid food as distinguished from poison administered in some other way. 
\par CHAUMURKY (Musky or Murky in some dialects): poison administered in a drink.
\par CHEOPS: pyramid chess; nine-level chess with the double object of putting your queen at the apex and the opponent's king in check.
\par CHEREM: a brotherhood of hate (usually for revenge). 
\par CHOAM: acronym for Combine Honnete Ober Advancer Mercantiles \endash  the universal development corporation controlled by the Emperor and Great Houses with the Guild and Bene Gesserit as silent partners.
\par CHUSUK: fourth planet of Theta Shalish; the so-called \'93Music Planet\'94 noted for the quality of its musical instruments. (See Varota.)
\par CIELAGO: any modified Chiroptera of Arrakis adapted to carry distrans messages.
\par CONE OF SILENCE: the field of a distorter that limits the carrying power of the voice or any other vibrator by damping the vibrations with an image-vibration 180 degrees out of phase. 
\par CORIOLIS STORM: any major sandstorm on Arrakis where winds across the open flatlands are amplified by the planet's own revolutionary motion to reach speeds up to 700 kilometers per hour.
\par CORRIN, BATTLE OF: the space battle from which the Imperial House Corrino took its name. The battle fought near Sigma Draconis in the year 88 B.G. settled the ascendancy of the ruling House from Salusa Secundus.
\par COUSINES: blood relations beyond cousins.
\par CRUSHERS: military space vessels composed of many smaller vessels locked together and designed to fall on an enemy position, crushing it.
\par CUTTERAY: short-range version of lasgun used mostly as a cutting tool and surgeon's scalpel.
\par CRYSKNIFE: the sacred knife of the Fremen on Arrakis. It is manufactured in two forms from teeth taken from dead sandworms. The two forms are \'93fixed\'94 and \'93unfixed.\'94
 An unfixed knife requires proximity to a human body's electrical field to prevent disintegration. Fixed knives are treated for storage. All are about 20 centimeters long.
\par 
\par DAR AL-HIKMAN: school of religious translation or interpretation.
\par DARK THINGS: idiomatic for the infectious superstitions taught by the Missionaria Protectiva to susceptible civilizations. 
\par DEATH TRIPOD: originally; the tripod upon which desert executioners hanged their victims. By usage: the three members of a Cherem sworn to the same revenge.
\par DERCH: right turn; a worm steersman's call.
\par DEW COLLECTORS or DEW PRECIPITATORS: not to be confused with dew gatherers. Collectors or precipitators are egg-shaped dev
ices about four centimeters on the long axis. They are made of chromoplastic that turns a reflecting white when subjected to light, and reverts to transparency in darkness. The collector forms a markedly cold surface upon which dawn dew will precipitate. 
They are used by Fremen to line concave planting depressions where they provide a small but reliable source of water.
\par DEW GATHERERS: workers who reap dew from the plants of Arrakis, using a scythelike dew reaper.
\par DEMIBROTHERS: sons of concubines in the same household and certified as having the same father.
\par DICTUM FAMILIA: that rule of the Great Convention which prohibits the slaying of a royal person or member of a Great House by informal treachery. The rule sets up the formal outline and limits the means of assassination.
\par DISTRANS: a device for producing a temporary neural imprint on the nervous system of Chiroptera or birds. The creature's normal cry then carries the message imprint which can be sorted from that carrier wave by another distrans.
\par DRUM SAND: impaction of sand in such away that any sudden blow against its surface produces a distinct drum sound. 
\par DOORSEAL: a portable plastic hermetic seal used for moisture security in Fremen overday cave camps.
\par DUMP BOXES: the general term for any cargo container of irregular shape and equipped with ablation surfaces and suspensor damping system. They are used to dump material from space onto a planet's surface.
\par DUNE MEN: idiomatic for open sand workers, spice hunters and the like on Arrakis. Sandworkers. Spiceworkers. 
\par DUST CHASM: any deep crevasse or depression on the desert of Arrakis that has been filled with dust not apparently different from the surrounding surface; a deadly trap because human or animal will sink in it and smother. (See Tidal Dust Basin.)
\par 
\par ECAZ: fourth planet of Alpha Centauri B; the sculptors\rquote  paradise, so called because it is the home of fogwood, the plant growth capable of being shaped in situ solely by the power of human thought.
\par EGO-LIKENESS: portraiture reproduced through a shigawire projector that is capable of reproducing subtle movements said to convey the ego essence.
\par ELACCA DRUG: narcotic formed by burning blood-grained elacca wood of Ecas. Its effect is to remove most of the will to self-preservation. Druggee skin shows a characteristic carrot color. Commonly used to prepare slave gladiators for the ring. 
\par EL-SAYAL: the \'93rain of sand.\'94 A fall of dust which has been carried to medium altitude (around 2,000 meters) by a coriolis storm. El-sayals frequently bring moisture to ground level. 
\par ERG: an extensive dune area, a sea of sand.
\par 
\par FAI: the water tribute, chief specie of tax on Arrakis. 
\par FANMETAL: metal formed by the growing of jasmium crystals in duraluminum; noted for extreme tensile strength in relationship to weight. Name derives from its common use in collapsible structures that are opened by \'93fanning\'94 them out. 
\par FAUFRELUCHES; the rigid rule of class distinction enforced by the Imperium. \'93A place for every man and every man in his place.\'94 
\par FEDAYKIN: Fremen death commandos; historically: a group formed and pledged to give their lives to right a wrong. 
\par FILMBOOK: any shigawire imprint used in training and carrying a mnemonic pulse.
\par FILT-PLUG: a nose filter unit worn with a stillsuit to capture moisture from the exhaled breath.
\par FIQH: knowledge, religious law; one of the half-legendary origins of the Zensunni Wanderers\rquote  religion.
\par FIRE, PILLAR OF: a simple pyrocket for signaling across the open desert.
\par FIRST MOON: the major satellite of Arrakis, first to rise in the night; notable for a distinct human fist pattern on its surface. 
\par FREE TRADERS: idiomatic for smugglers.
\par FREMEN: the free tribes of Arrakis, dwellers in the desert, remnants of the Zensunni Wanderers. ("Sand Pirates\'94 according to the Imperial Dictionary.) 
\par FREMKIT: desert survival kit of Fremen manufacture. 
\par FRIGATE: largest spaceship that can be grounded on a planet and taken off in one piece.
\par 
\par GALACH: official language of the Imperium. Hybrid Inglo-Slavic with strong traces of cultural-specialization terms adopted during the long chain of human migrations.
\par GAMONT: third planet of Niushe; noted for its hedonistic culture and exotic sexual practices. 
\par GARE: butte.
\par GATHERING: distinguished from Council Gathering. It is a formal convocation of Fremen leaders to witness a combat that determines tribal leadership. (A Council Gathering is an assembly to arrive at decisions involving all the tribes.) 
\par GEYRAT: straight ahead; a worm steersman's call. 
\par GHAFLA: giving oneself up to gadfly distractions. Thus: a changeable person, one not to be trusted.
\par GHANIMA: something acquired in battle or single combat. Commonly, a memento of combat kept only to stir the memory. 
\par GIEDI PRIME: the planet of Ophiuchi B (36), homeworld of House Harkonnen. A median-viable planet with a low active-photosynthesis range.
\par GINAZ, HOUSE OF: one-time allies of Duke Leto Atreides. They were defeated in the War of Assassins with Grumman. 
\par GIUDICHAR: a holy truth. (Commonly seen in the expression Giudichar mantene: an original and supporting truth.) 
\par GLOWGLOBE: suspensor-buoyed illuminating device, self-powered (usually by organic batteries).
\par GRABEN: a long geological ditch formed when the ground sinks because of movements in the underlying crustal layers. 
\par GREAT CONVENTION: the universal truce enforced under the power balance maintained by the Guild, the Great Houses, and the Imperium. Its chief rule prohibits the use of atomic weapons against human targets. Each rule of the Great Convention begins: \'93
The forms must be obeyed\'85 \'94 
\par GREAT MOTHER: the horned goddess, the feminine principle of space (commonly: Mother Space), the feminine face of the male-female-neuter trinity accepted as Supreme Being by many religions within the Imperium.
\par GREAT REVOLT: common term for the Butlerian Jihad. (See Jihad, Butlerian.) 
\par GRIDEX PLANE: a differential-charge separator used to remove sand from the melange spice mass; a device of the second stage in spice refining.
\par GRUMMAN: second planet of Niushe, noted chiefly for the feud of its ruling House (Moritani) with House Ginaz. 
\par GOM JABBAR; the high-handed enemy; that specific poison needle tipped with meta-cyanide used by Bene Gesserit Proctors in the death-alternative test of human awareness. 
\par GUILD: the Spacing Guild, one leg of the political tripod maintaining the Great Convention. The Gu
ild was the second mental-physical training school (see Bene Gesserit) after the Butlerian Jihad. The Guild monopoly on space travel and transport and upon international banking is taken as the beginning point of the Imperial Calendar.
\par 
\par HAGAL: the \'93Jewel Planet\'94 (II Theta Shaowei), mined out in the time of Shaddam I.
\par HAIIIII-YOH!: command to action; worm steersman's call. 
\par HAJJ: holy journey.
\par HARJ: desert journey, migration. 
\par HAJRA: journey of seeking.
\par HAL YAWM: \'93Now! At last!\'94 a Fremen exclamation.
\par HARMONTHEP: Ingsley gives this as the planet name for the sixth stop in the Zensunni migration. It is supposed to have been a no longer existent satellite of Delta Pavonis.
\par HARVESTER or HARVESTER FACTORY: a large (often 120 meters by 40 meters) spice mining machine commonly employed on rich, uncontaminated melange blows. (Often called a \'93crawler\'94 because of buglike body on independent tracks.) 
\par HEIGHLINER: major cargo carrier of the Spacing Guild's transportation system.
\par HIEREG: temporary Fremen desert camp on open sand. 
\par HIGH COUNCIL: the Landsraad inner circle empowered to act as supreme tribunal in House to House disputes.
\par HOLTZMAN EFFECT: the negative repelling effect of a shield generator.
\par HOOKMAN: Fremen with Maker hooks prepared to catch a sandworm.
\par HOUSE: idiomatic for Ruling Clan of a planet or planetary system. 
\par HOUSES MAJOR: holders of planetary fiefs; interplanetary entrepreneurs. (See House above.) 
\par HOUSES MINOR: planet-bound entrepreneur class (Galach: \'93Richece").
\par HUNTER-SEEKER: a ravening sliver of suspensor-buoyed metal guided as a weapon by a near-by control console; common assassination device.
\par 
\par IBAD, EYES OF: characteristic effect of a diet high in melange wherein the whites and pupils of the eyes turn a deep blue (indicative of deep melange addiction).
\par IBN QIRTAIBA: \'93Thus go the holy words\'85\'94 Formal beginning to Fremen religious incantation (derived from panoplia propheticus).
\par ICHWAN BEDWINE: the brotherhood of all Fremen on Arrakis. 
\par IJAZ: prophecy that by its very nature cannot be denied; immutable prophecy.
\par IKHUT-EIGH!: cry of the water-seller on Arrakis (etymology uncertain). See Soo-Soo Sook!
\par ILM: theology; science of religious tradition; one of the half-legendary origins of the Zensunni Wanderers\rquote  faith. 
\par IMPERIAL CONDITIONING: a development of the Suk Medical Schools: the highest conditioning against taking human life. Initiates are marked by a diamond tattoo on the forehead and are permitted to wear their hair long and bound by a silver Suk ring. 
\par INKVINE: a creeping plant native to Giedi Prime and frequently used as a whip in the slave cribs. Victims are marked by beet-colored tattoos that cause residual pain for many years. 
\par ISTISLAH: a rule for the general welfare; usually a preface to brutal necessity. IX: see Richese.
\par 
\par JIHAD: a religious crusade; fanatical crusade.
\par JIHAD, BUTLERIAN: (see also Great Revolt) \endash  the crusade against computers, thinking machines, and conscious robots begun in 201 B.G. and concluded in 108 B.G. Its chief commandment remains in the O.C. Bible as \'93Thou shalt not mak
e a machine in the likeness of a human mind.\'94 
\par JUBBA CLOAK: the all-purpose cloak (it can beset to reflect or admit radiant heat, converts to a hammock or shelter) commonly worn over a stillsuit on Arrakis.
\par JUDGE OF THE CHANGE: an official appointed by the
 Landsraad High Council and the Emperor to monitor a change of fief, a kanly negotiation, or formal battle in a War of Assassins. The Judge's arbitral authority may be challenged only before the High Council with the Emperor present.
\par 
\par KANLY: formal feud or vendetta under the rules of the Great Convention carried on according to the strictest limitations. (See Judge of the Change.) Originally the rules were designed to protect innocent bystanders.
\par KARAMA: a miracle; an action initiated by the spirit world.
\par KHALA: traditional invocation to still the angry spirits of a place whose name you mention.
\par KINDJAL: double bladed short sword (or long knife) with about 20 centimeters of slightly curved blade.
\par KISWA; any figure or design from Fremen mythology. 
\par KITAB AL-IBAR: the combined survival handbook-religious manual developed by the Fremen on Arrakis.
\par KRIMSKELL FIBER or KRIMSKELL ROPE: the \'93claw fiber\'94 woven from strands of the hufuf vine from Ecaz. Knots tied in krimskell will claw tighter and tighter to preset lim
its when the knot-lines are pulled. (For a more detailed study, see Holjance Vohnbrook's \'93The Strangler Vines of Ecaz.") 
\par KULL WAHAD!: \'93I am profoundly stirred!\'94 A sincere exclamation of surprise common in the Imperium. Strict interpretation depends on context. (It is said of Muad'Dib that once he watched a desert hawk chick emerge from its shell and whispered: \'93
Kull wahad!") 
\par KULON: wild ass of Terra's Asiatic steppes adapted for Arrakis. 
\par KWISATZ HADERACH: \'93Shortening of the Way.\'94 This is the label applied by the Bene Gesserit to the unknown for which they sought a genetic solution: a male Bene Gesserit whose organic mental powers would bridge space and time.
\par 
\par LA, LA, LA: Fremen cry of grief. (La translates as ultimate denial, a \'93no\'94 from which you cannot appeal.) 
\par LASGUN: continuous-wave laser projector. Its use as a weapon is limited in a field-generator-shield culture because of the explosive pyrotechnics (technically, subatomic fusion) created when its beam intersects a shield.
\par LEGION, IMPERIAL: ten brigades (about 30,000 men). 
\par LIBAN: Fremen liban is spice water infused with yucca flour. Originally a sour milk drink.
\par LISAN AL-GAIB: \'93The Voice from the Outer World.\'94 In Fremen messianic legends, an off-world prophet. Sometimes translated as \'93Giver of Water.\'94 (See Mahdi.) 
\par LITERJON: a one-liter container for transporting water on Arrakis; made of high-density, shatterproof plastic with positive seal. 
\par LITTLE MAKER: the half-plant-half-animal deep-sand vector of the Arrakis sandworm. The Little Maker's excretions form the pre-spice mass.
\par 
\par MAHDI: in the Fremen messianic legend, \'93The One Who Will Lead Us to Paradise.\'94
\par MAKER: see Shai-hulud.
\par MAKER HOOKS: the hooks used for capturing, mounting, and steering a sandworm of Arrakis.
\par MANTENE: underlying wisdom, supporting argument, first principle. (See Giudichar.) 
\par MATING INDEX: the Bene Gesserit master record of its human breeding program aimed at producing the Kwisatz Haderach. 
\par MAULA: slave.
\par MAULA PISTOL: spring-loaded gun for firing poison darts; range about forty meters.
\par MELANGE: the \'93spice of spices,\'94 the crop for which Arrakis is the unique source. The spice, chiefly noted for its geriatric qualities, is mildly addictive when taken in small quantities, severely addictive when imbibed in quantities above two gra
ms daily per seventy kilos of body weight. (See Ibad, Water of Life, and Pre-spice Mass.) Muad'Dib claimed the spice as a key to his prophetic powers. Guild navigators make similar claims. Its price on the Imperial market has ranged as high as 620,000 Sol
aris the decagram.
\par MENTAT: that class of Imperial citizens trained for supreme accomplishments of logic. \'93Human computers.\'94 
\par METAGLASS: glass grown as a high-temperature gas infusion in sheets of jasmium quartz. Noted for extreme tensile strength (about 450,000 kilos per square centimeter at two centimeters\rquote  thickness) and capacity as a selective radiation filter. 

\par MIHNA: the season for testing Fremen youths who wish admittance to manhood.
\par MINIMIC FILM: shigawire of one-micron diameter often used to transmit espionage and counterespionage data. 
\par MISH-MISH: apricots.
\par MISR: the historical Zensunni(Fremen) term for themselves: \'93The People.\'94 
\par MISSIONARIA PROTECTIVA: the arm of the Bene Gesserit order charged with sowing infectious superstitions on primitive worlds, thus opening those regions to exploitation by the Bene Gesserit. (See Panoplia propheticus.) 
\par MONITOR: a ten-section space warcraft mounting heavy armor and shield protection. It is designed to be separated into its component sections for lift-off after planet-fall. 
\par MUAD'DIB: the adapted kangaroo mouse of Arrakis, a creature associated in the Fremen earth-spirit mythology with a design visible on the planet's second moon. This creature is admired by Fremen for its ability to survive in the open desert. 
\par MUDIR NAHYA: the Fremen name for Beast Rabban (Count Rabban of Lankiveil), the Harkonnen cousin who was siridar governor on Arrakis for many years. The name is often translated as \'93Demon Ruler.\'94 
\par MUSHTAMAL: a small garden annex or garden courtyard. 
\par MUSKY: poison in a drink. (See Chaumurky.) 
\par MU ZEIN WALLAH!: Mu zein literally means \'93nothing good,\'94 and wallah is a reflexive terminal exclamation. In this traditional opening for a Fremen curse against an enemy, Wallah turns the emphasis back upon the words Mu zein, producing the meaning: 
\'93Nothing good, never good, good for nothing.\'94
\par 
\par Na-: a prefix meaning \'93nominated\'94 or \'93next in line.\'94 Thus: na-Baron means heir apparent to a barony.
\par NAIB: one who has sworn never to be taken alive by the enemy; traditional oath of a Fremen leader.
\par NEZHONI SCARF: the scarf-pad worn at the forehead beneath the stillsuit hood by married or \'93associated\'94 Fremen women after birth of a son.
\par NOUKKERS: officers of the Imperial bodyguard who are related to the Emperor by blood. Traditional rank for sons of royal concubines.
\par 
\par OIL LENS: hufuf oil held in static tension by an enclosing force field within a viewing tube as part of a magnifying or other light-manipulation system. Because each lens element can be adjusted individually one micro
n at a time, the oil lens is considered the ultimate in accuracy for manipulating visible light. 
\par OPAFIRE: one of the rare opaline jewels of Hagal. 
\par ORANGE CATHOLIC BIBLE: the \'93Accumulated Book,\'94 the religious text produced by the Commission of Ecumenical 
Translators. It contains elements of most ancient religions, including the Maometh Saari, Mahayana Christianity, Zensunni Catholicism and Buddislamic traditions. Its supreme commandment is considered to be: \'93Thou shall not disfigure the soul.\'94 

\par ORNITHOPTER (commonly: \lquote thopter): any aircraft capable of sustained wing-beat flight in the manner of birds. 
\par OUT-FREYN: Galach for \'93immediately foreign,\'94 that is: not of your immediate community, not of the select.
\par 
\par PALM LOCK: any lock or seal which may be opened on contact with the palm of the human hand to which it has been keyed. 
\par PAN: on Arrakis, any low-lying region or depression created by the subsiding of the underlying basement complex. (On planets with sufficient water, a pan indicates a region once covered 
by open water. Arrakis is believed to have at least one such area, although this remains open to argument.) 
\par PANOPLIA PROPHETICUS: term covering the infectious superstitions used by the Bene Gesserit to exploit primitive regions. (See Missionaria Protectiva.) 
\par PARACOMPASS: any compass that determines direction by local magnetic anomaly; used where relevant charts are available and where a planet's total magnetic field is unstable or subject to masking by severe magnetic storms.
\par PENTASHIELD: a five-layer shi
eld-generator field suitable for small areas such as doorways or passages (large reinforcing shields become increasingly unstable with each successive layer) and virtually impassable to anyone not wearing a dissembler tuned to the shield codes. (See Prude
nce Door.) 
\par PLASTEEL: steel which has been stabilized with stravidium fibers grown into its crystal structure.
\par PLENISCENTA: an exotic green bloom of Ecaz noted for its sweet aroma.
\par POLING THE SAND: the art of placing plastic and fiber poles in the open desert wastes of Arrakis and reading the patterns etched on the poles by sandstorms as a clue to weather prediction. 
\par PORITRIN: third planet of Epsilon Alangue, considered by many Zensunni Wanderers as their planet of origin, although clues in their language and mythology show far more ancient planetary roots.
\par PORTYGULS: oranges.
\par PRANA (Prana-musculature): the body's muscles when considered as units for ultimate training. (See Bindu.) 
\par PRE-SPICE MASS: the stage of fungusoid wild growth achieved when water is flooded into the excretions of Little Makers. At this stage, the spice of Arrakis forms a characteristic \'93blow,\'94
 exchanging the material from deep underground for the matter on the surface above it. This mass, after exposure to sun and air, becomes melange (See also Melange and Water of Life.) 
\par PROCES VERBAL: a semiformal report alleging a crime against the Imperium. Legally: an action falling between a loose verbal allegation and a formal charge of crime.
\par PROCTOR SUPERIOR: a Bene Gesserit Reverend Mother who is also regional director of a B.G. school. (Commonly: Bene Gesserit with the Sight.) 
\par PRUDENCE DOOR or PRUDENCE BARRIER (idiomatically: pru-door or pru-barrier): any pentashield situated for the escape of selected persons under conditions of pursuit. (See Pentashield.) 
\par PUNDI RICE: a mutated rice whose grains, high in natural sugar, achieve lengths up to four centimeters; chief export of Caladan. 
\par PYONS: planet-bound peasants or laborers, one of the base classes under the Faufreluches. Legally: wards of the planet. 
\par PYRETIC CONSCIENCE: so-called \'93conscience of fire"; that inhibitory level touched by Imperial conditioning. (See Imperial conditioning.)
\par 
\par QANAT: an open canal for carrying irrigation water under controlled conditions through a desert. 
\par QIRTAIBA; see Ibn Qirtaiba.
\par QUIZARA TAFWID: Fremen priests (after Muad'Dib).
\par 
\par RACHAG: a caffeine-type stimulant from the yellow berries of akarso. (See Akarso.) 
\par RAMADHAN: ancient religious period marked by fasting and prayer; traditionally, the ninth month of the solar-lunar calendar. Fremen mark the observance according to the ninth meridian-crossing cycle of the first moon. 
\par RAZZIA: a semipiratical guerrilla raid.
\par RECATHS: body-function tubes linking the human waste disposal system to the cycling filters of a stillsuit. 
\par REPKIT: repair and replacement essentials for a stillsuit. 
\par RESIDUAL POISON: an innovation attributed to the Mentat Piter de Vries whereby the body is impregnated with a substance for which repeated antidotes must be administered. Withdrawal of the antidote at any time brings death.
\par REVEREND MOTHER: originally, a proctor of the Bene Gesserit, one who has transformed an \'93illuminating poison\'94 within her body, raising herself to a higher state of awareness. Title adopted by Fremen for their own relig
ious leaders who accomplished a similar \'93illumination.\'94 (See also Bene Gesserit and Water of Life.) 
\par RICHESE: fourth planet of Eridani A, classed with Ix as supreme in machine culture. Noted for miniaturization. (For a detailed study on how Richese and lx escaped the more severe effects of the Butlerian Jihad, see The Last Jihad by Sumer and Kautman.) 

\par RIMWALL: second upper Step of the protecting bluffs on the Shield Wall of Arrakis. (See Shield Wall.) 
\par RUH-SPIRIT: in Fremen belief, that part of the individual which is always rooted in (and capable of sensing) the metaphysical world. (See Alam al-Mithal.)
\par 
\par SADUS: judges. The Fremen title refers to holy judges, equivalent to saints.
\par SALUSA SECUNDUS: third planet of Gamma Waiping; designated Imperial Prison Pl
anet after removal of the Royal Court to Kaitain. Salusa Secundus is homeworld of House Corrino, and the second stopping point in migrations of the Wandering Zensunni. Fremen tradition says they were slaves on S.S. for nine generations.
\par SANDCRAWLER: general term for machinery designed to operate on the Arrakis surface in hunting and collecting melange. 
\par SANDMASTER: general superintendent of spice operations. 
\par SANDRIDER: Fremen term for one who is capable of capturing and riding a sandworm.
\par SANDSNORK: breathing device for pumping surface air into a sandcovered stilltent.
\par SANDTIDE: idiomatic for a dust tide: the variation in level within certain dust-filled basins on Arrakis due to gravitational effects of sun and satellites. (See Tidal Dust Basin.) 
\par SANDWALKER: any Fremen trained to survive in the open desert. 
\par SANDWORM: See Shai-Hulud.
\par SAPHO: high-energy liquid extracted from barrier roots of Ecaz. Commonly used by Mentats who claim it amplifies mental powers. Users develop deep ruby stains on mouth and lips. 
\par SARDAUKAR: the soldier-fanatics of the Padishah Emperor. They were men from an environmental background of such ferocity that it killed six out of thirteen persons before the age of eleven. Their military training emphasized ruthlessness and a near-suici
dal disregard for personal safety. They were taught from infancy to use cruelty as a standard weapon, weakening opponents with terror. At the apex of their sway over the affairs of the Universe, their swordsmanship was said to match that of the Ginaz tent
h
 level and their cunning abilities at in-fighting were reputed to approach those of a Bene Gesserit adept. Any one of them was rated a match for any ten ordinary Landsraad military conscripts. By the time of Shaddam IV, while they were still formidable, t
heir strength had been sapped by overconfidence, and the sustaining mystique of their warrior religion had been deeply undermined by cynicism. 
\par SARFA: the act of turning away from God.
\par SAYYADINA: feminine acolyte in the Fremen religious hierarchy. 
\par SCHLAG: animal native to Tupile once hunted almost to extinction for its thin, tough hide.
\par SECOND MOON: the smaller of the two satellites of Arrakis, noteworthy for the kangaroo mouse figure in its surface markings.
\par SELAMLIK: Imperial audience chamber.
\par SEMUTA: the second narcotic derivative (by crystal extraction) from burned residue of elacca wood. The effect (described as timeless, sustained ecstasy) is elicited by certain atonal vibrations referred to as semuta music.
\par SERVOK: clock-set mechanism to perform simple tasks; one of the limited \'93automatic\'94 devices permitted after the Butlerian Jihad. 
\par SHAH-NAMA: the half-legendary First Book of the Zensunni Wanderers.
\par SHAI-HULUD: Sandworm of Arrakis, the \'93Old Man of the Desert,\'94 \'93Old Father Eternity,\'94 and \'93Grandfather of the Desert.\'94
 Significantly, this name, when referred to in a certain tone or written with capital letters, designates the earth deity of Fremen hearth superstitions. Sandworms grow to enormous size (specimens longer than 400 meters have been seen in the
 deep desert) and live to great age unless slain by one of their fellows or drowned in water, which is poisonous to them. Most of the sand on Arrakis is credited to sandworm action. (See Little Maker.) 
\par SHARI-A: that part of the panoplia propheticus which sets forth the superstitious ritual. (See Missionaria Protectiva.)
\par SHADOUT: well-dipper, a Fremen honorific. 
\par SHAITAN: Satan.
\par SHIELD, DEFENSIVE: the protective field produced by a Holtzman generator. This field derives from Phase One of the suspensor-nulli
fication effect. A shield will permit entry only to objects moving at slow speeds (depending on setting, this speed ranges from six to nine centimeters per second) and can be shorted out only by a shire-sized electric field. (See Lasgun.) 
\par SHIELD WALL: a mountainous geographic feature in the northern reaches of Arrakis which protects a small area from the full force of the planet's coriolis storms.
\par SHIGAWIRE: metallic extrusion of a ground vine. (Narvi narviium) grown only on Salusa Secundus and III Delta Kaising. It is noted for extreme tensile strength.
\par SIETCH: Fremen: \'93Place of assembly in time of danger. \'93Because the Fremen lived so long in peril, the term came by general usage to designate any cave warren inhabited by one of their tribal communities.
\par SIHAYA: Fremen: the desert springtime with religious overtones implying the time of fruitfulness and \'93the paradise to come.\'94 
\par SINK: a habitable lowland area on Arrakis surrounded by high ground that protects it from the prevailing storms. 
\par SINKCHART: map of the Arrakis surface laid out with reference to the most reliable paracompass routes between places of refuge. (See Paracompass.) 
\par SIRAT: the passage in the O.C. Bible that describes human life as a journey across a narrow bridge (the Sirat) with \'93Paradise on my right. Hell on my left, and the Angel of Death behind.\'94 
\par SLIP-TIP: any thin, short blade (often poison-tipped) for left-hand use in shield fighting.
\par SNOOPER, POISON: radiation analyzer within the olfactory spectrum and keyed to detect poisonous substances. 
\par SOLARI: official monetary unit of the Imperium, its purchasing power set at quatricentennial negotiations between the Guild, the Landsraad, and the Emperor.
\par SOLIDO: the three-dimensional image from a solido projector using 360-degree reference signals imprinted on a shigawire reel. Ixian solido projectors are commonly considered the best. 
\par SONDAGI; the fern tulip of Tupali.
\par SOO-SOO SOOK!: water-seller's cry on Arrakis. Sook is a market place. (See Ikhut-eigh!) 
\par SPACING GUILD: see Guild. 
\par SPICE: see Melange.
\par SPICE DRIVER: any Dune man who controls and directs movable machinery on the desert surface of Arrakis. 
\par SPICE FACTORY: see Sandcrawler.
\par SPOTTER CONTROL: the light ornithopter in a spice-hunting group charged with control of watch and protection. 
\par STILLSUIT: body-enclosing garment invented on Arrakis. Its fabric is a micro-sandwich performing functions of heat dissipation and filter for bodily wastes. Reclaimed moisture is made available by tube from catchpockets.
\par STILLTENT: small, scalable enclosure of micro-sandwich fabric designed to reclaim as potable water the ambient moisture discharged within it by the breath of its occupants. 
\par STUNNER: slow-pellet projectile weapon throwing a poison- or drug-tipped dart. Effectiveness limited by variations in shield settings and relative motion between target and projectile. 
\par SUBAKH UL KUHAR: \'93Are you well?": a Fremen greeting. 
\par SUBAKH UN NAR: \'93I am well. And you?": traditional reply. 
\par SUSPENSOR: secondary (low-drain) phase of a Holtzman field generator. It nullifies gravity within certain limits prescribed by relative mass and energy consumption.
\par 
\par TAHADDI AL-BURHAN: an ultimate test from which there can be no appeal (usually because it brings death or destruction).
\par TAHADDI CHALLENGE: Fremen challenge to mortal combat, usually to test some primal issue.
\par TAQWA: literally: \'93The price of freedom.\'94 Something of great value. That which a deity demands of a mortal (and the fear provoked by the demand).
\par TAU, THE: in Fremen terminology, that oneness of a sietch community enhanced by spice diet and especially the tau orgy of oneness elicited by drinking the Water of Life. 
\par TEST-MASHAD: any test in which honor (defined as spiritual standing) is at stake.
\par THUMPER: short stake with spring-driven clapper at one end. The purpose: to be driven into the sand and set \'93thumping\'94 to summon shai-hulud. (See Maker hooks.) 
\par TIDAL DUST BASIN: any of the extensive depressions in the surface of Arrakis which have been filled with dust over the centuries and in which actual dust tides (see Sandtides) have been measured.
\par TLEILAX: lone planet of Thalim, noted as renegade training center for Mentats; source of \'93twisted\'94 Mentats. 
\par T-P: idiomatic for telepathy.
\par TRAINING: when applied to Bene Gesserit, this otherwise common term assumes special meaning, referring to that conditioning of nerve and muscle (see Bindu and Prana) which is carried to the last possible notch permitted by natural function. 
\par TROOP CARRIER: any Guild ship designed specifically for transport of troops between planets.
\par TRUTHSAYER: a Reverend Mother qualified to enter truthtrance and detect insincerity or falsehood.
\par TRUTHTRANCE: semihypnotic trance induced by one of several \'93awareness spectrum\'94 narcotics in which the petit betrayals of deliberate falsehood are apparent to the truthtrance observer. (Note: \'93awareness spectrum\'94
 narcotics are frequently fatal except to desensitized individuals capable of transforming the poison-configuration within their own bodies.)
\par TUPILE: so-called \'93sanctuary planet\'94 (probably several planets) for defeated Houses of the Imperium. Location(s) known only to the Guild and maintained inviolate under the Guild Peace.
\par 
\par ULEMA: a Zensunni doctor of theology.
\par UMMA: one of the brotherhood of prophets. (A term of scorn in the Imperium, meaning any \'93wild\'94 person given to fanatical prediction.) 
\par UROSHNOR: one of several sounds empty of general meaning and which Bene Gesserit implant within the psyches of selected victims for purposes of control. The sensitized person, hearing the sound, is temporarily immobilized. 
\par USUL: Fremen: \'93The base of the pillar.\'94
\par 
\par VAROTA: famed maker of balisets; a native of Chusuk. 
\par VERITE: one of the Ecaz will-destroying narcotics. It renders a person incapable of falsehood.
\par VOICE: that combined training originated by the Bene Gesserit which permits an adept to control others merely by selected tone shadings of the voice.
\par 
\par WALI: an untried Fremen youth.
\par WALLACH IX: ninth planet of Laoujin, site of the Mother School of the Bene Gesserit.
\par WAR OF ASSASSINS: the limited form of warfare permitted under the Great Convention and the Guild Peace. The aim is to reduce involvement of innocent bystanders. Rules prescribe formal declarations of intent and restrict permissible weapons. 
\par WATER BURDEN: Fremen: a mortal obligation. 
\par WATERCOUNTERS: metal rings of different size, each designating a specific amount of water payable out of Fremen stores. Watercounters have profound significance (far beyond the idea of money) especially in birth, death, and courtship ritual. 
\par WATER DISCIPLINE: that harsh training which fits the inhabitants of Arrakis for existence there without wasting moisture.
\par WATERMAN: a Fremen consecrated for and charged with the ritual duties surrounding water and the Water of Life. 
\par WATER OF LIFE: an \'93illuminating\'94 poison (see Reverend 
Mother). Specifically, that liquid exhalation of a sandworm (see Shai-hulud) produced at the moment of its death from drowning which is changed within the body of a Reverend Mother to become the narcotic used in the sietch tau orgy. An \'93
awareness spectrum\'94 narcotic.
\par WATERTUBE: any tube within a stillsuit or stilltent that carries reclaimed water into a catchpocket or from the catchpocket to the wearer.
\par WAY, BENE GESSERIT: use of the minutiae of observation. 
\par WEATHER SCANNER; a person trained in the special methods of predicting weather on Arrakis, including ability to pole the sand and read the wind patterns.
\par WEIRDING: idiomatic: that which partakes of the mystical or of witchcraft.
\par WINDTRAP: a device placed in the path of a prevailing wind and capable of precipitating moisture from the air caught within it, usually by a sharp and distinct drop in temperature within the trap.
\par 
\par YA HYA CHOUHADA: \'93Long live the fighters!\'94 The Fedaykin battle cry. Ya (now) in this cry is augmented by the hya form (the ever-extend
ed now). Chouhada (fighters) carries this added meaning of fighters against injustice. There is a distinction in this word that specifies the fighters are not struggling for anything, but are consecrated against a specific thing \endash  that alone. 

\par YALI: a Fremen's personal quarters within the sietch. 
\par YA! YA! YAWM!: Fremen chanting cadence used in time of deep ritual significance. Ya carries the root meaning of \'93Now pay attention!\'94 The yawm form is a modified term calling for urgent immediacy. The chant is usually translated as \'93
Now, hear this!\'94
\par 
\par ZENSUNNI: followers of a schismatic sect that broke away from the teachings of Maometh (the so-called \'93Third Muhammed") about 1381 B.G. The Zensunni religion is noted chiefly for its emphasis on the mystical and a reversion to \'93
the ways of the fathers.\'94 Most scholars name Ali Ben Ohashi as leader of the original schism but there is some evidence that Ohashi may have been merely the male spokesman for his second wife, Nisai.}{\fs28\insrsid12321806\charrsid16326584 
\par }}