{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1049\deflangfe1049{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset204\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f407\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}
{\f405\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f408\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f409\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f410\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\f411\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f412\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f413\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\qc \li595\ri595\sb1440\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0 \b\fs48\lang1049\langfe1049\kerning36\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 \sbasedon0 \snext1 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden 
Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{
\s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Normal (Web);}{
\s16\qc \li2381\ri2381\sb480\sa480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin2381\lin2381\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Block Text;}{\*\cs17 \additive \i \sbasedon10 Emphasis;}{\*\cs18 \additive 
\ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 Hyperlink;}{\*\cs19 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 FollowedHyperlink;}}{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax156\lsdlockeddef0}{\*\revtbl {Unknown;}}{\*\pgptbl {\pgp\ipgp0\itap0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid919596\rsid1669904\rsid7158391\rsid7558202\rsid8418489
\rsid15338429}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 11.0.6568;}{\info{\title Frank Herbert - The Book of Frank Herbert}{\author Nata}{\operator Nata}{\creatim\yr2007\mo5\dy24\hr5\min24}{\revtim\yr2007\mo5\dy24\hr5\min24}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages119}
{\nofwords55587}{\nofchars316847}{\*\company Home}{\nofcharsws371691}{\vern24579}}\paperw11906\paperh16838\margl1701\margr850\margt1134\margb1134 
\deftab708\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1134\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind4\viewscale125\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\allowfieldendsel\nojkernpunct\rsidroot15338429\newtblstyruls \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\headery708\footery708\colsx708\endnhere\pgbrdropt32\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s16\ql \li2381\ri-5\sb480\sa480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin-5\lin2381\itap0\ipgp1\pararsid1669904 \b\fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\cs17\fs48\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202\charrsid7158391 
Frank Herbert
\par }{\cs17\fs48\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7158391\charrsid7158391 Short Stories}{\cs17\fs48\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid1669904  and Novelettes}{\cs17\fs48\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7158391\charrsid7158391  }{
\cs17\fs48\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7158391 - }{\cs17\fs48\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7158391\charrsid7158391 1}{\i\fs48\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7158391\charrsid7158391 
\par }\pard \s16\ql \li2381\ri2381\sb480\sa480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin2381\lin2381\itap0\ipgp1 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7158391 
\par }{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Table of Contents
\par }{\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  HYPERLINK "" \\l "_Seed_Stock" }}{\fldrslt {\cs18\ul\cf2\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 SEED STOCK}}}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 \line }
{\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  HYPERLINK "" \\l "_The_Nothing" }}{\fldrslt {\cs18\ul\cf2\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 THE NOTHING}}}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 \line }
{\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  HYPERLINK "" \\l "_Rat_Race" }}{\fldrslt {\cs18\ul\cf2\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 RAT RACE}}}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 \line }
{\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  HYPERLINK "" \\l "_Gambling_Device" }}{\fldrslt {\cs18\ul\cf2\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 GAMBLING DEVICE}}}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\line }{\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  HYPERLINK "" \\l "_Looking_for_Something?" }}{\fldrslt {\cs18\ul\cf2\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 LOOKING FOR SOMETHING?}}}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 \line }{\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  HYPERLINK "" \\l "_The_Gone_Dogs" }}{\fldrslt {\cs18\ul\cf2\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 THE GONE DOGS}}}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 \line }{\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  HYPERLINK "" \\l "_Passage_for_Piano" }}{\fldrslt {\cs18\ul\cf2\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
PASSAGE FOR PIANO}}}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 \line }{\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  HYPERLINK "" \\l "_Encounter_in_a_Lonely_Place" }}{\fldrslt {
\cs18\ul\cf2\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 ENCOUNTER IN A LONELY PLACE}}}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 \line }{\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  HYPERLINK "" \\
l "_Operation_Syndrome" }}{\fldrslt {\cs18\ul\cf2\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 OPERATION SYNDROME}}}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 \line }{\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
 HYPERLINK "" \\l "_Occupation_Force" }}{\fldrslt {\cs18\ul\cf2\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 OCCUPATION FORCE}}}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 \line }{\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst {
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  HYPERLINK "" \\l "_Old_Rambling_House" }}{\fldrslt {\cs18\ul\cf2\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 OLD RAMBLING HOUSE}}}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 \line }
{\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  HYPERLINK "" \\l "_GM_Effect" }}{\fldrslt {\cs18\ul\cf2\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 GM EFFECT}}}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\qc \li595\ri595\sb1440\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \b\fs48\lang1049\langfe1049\kerning36\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
{\*\bkmkstart _Seed_Stock}{\*\bkmkend _Seed_Stock}Seed Stock
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 When the sun had sunk a
lmost to the edge of the purple ocean, hanging there like a giant orange ball\emdash much larger than the sun of Mother Earth which he remembered with such nostalgia\emdash Kroudar brought his fishermen back to the harbor.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
A short man, Kroudar gave the impression of heaviness, but under his shipcloth motley he was as scrawny as any of the others, all bone and stringy muscle. It was the sickness of this planet, the doctors told him. They called it \'93body burdens,\'94
 a subtle thing of differences in chemistry, gravity, diurnal periods and even the lack of a tidal moon.
\par Kroudar\rquote s yellow hair, his one good feature, was uncut and contained in a protective square of red cloth. Beneath this was a wide, low forehead, deeply sunken large eyes of a washed-out blue, a crooked nose that
 was splayed and pushed in, thick lips over large and unevenly spaced yellow teeth, and a melon chin receding into a short, ridged neck.
\par Dividing his attention between sails and shore, Kroudar steered with one bare foot on the tiller.
\par They had been all day out in the up-coast current netting the shrimp-like }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 trodi}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  which formed the colony\rquote 
s main source of edible protein. There were nine boats and the men in all of them were limp with fatigue, silent, eyes closed or open and staring at nothing.
\par The evening breeze rippled its dark lines across the harbor, moved the sweat-matted yellow hair on Kroudar\rquote s neck. It bellied the shipcloth sails and gave the heavily loaded boats that last necessary surge to carry them up into the strand.
\par Men moved then. Sails dropped with a slatting and rasping. Each thing was done with sparse motion in the weighted slowness of their fatigue.
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Trodi}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  had been thick in the current out there, and Kroudar pushed his people to their limit. It had not taken much push. They all understood the n
eed. The swarmings and runnings of useful creatures on this planet had not been clocked with any reliable precision. Things here exhibited strange gaps and breaks in seeming regularity. The }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 trodi}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  might vanish at any moment into some unknown place as they had been known to do before.
\par The colony had experienced hunger and children crying for food that must be rationed. Men seldom spoke of this anymore, but they moved with the certain knowledge of it. More than three years now, Kroudar thought, as he shouldered a dripping bag of }{
\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 trodi}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
 and pushed his weary feet through the sand, climbing the beach toward the storage huts and racks where the sea creatures were dried for processing. It had been more than three years since their ship had come down from space.
\par The c
olony ship had been constructed as a multiple tool, filled with select human stock, their domestic animals and basic necessities, and it had been sent to plant humans in this far place. It had been designed to land once, then be broken down into useful th
ings.
\par Somehow, the basic necessities had fallen short, and the colony had been forced to improvise its own tools. They had not really settled here yet, Kroudar realized. More than three years\emdash and three years here were five years of Mother Earth\emdash 
and they still lived on the edge of extinction. They were trapped here. Yes, that was true. The ship could never be reconstructed. And even if that miracle were accomplished, the fuel did not exist. The colony was }{
\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 here.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par And every member knew the predatory truth of their predicament: survival had not been assured. It was known in subtle things to Kroudar\rquote s unlettered mind, especially in a fact he observed without being able to explain.
\par Not one of their number had yet accepted a name for this planet. It was \'93here\'94 or \'93this place.\'94
\par Or even more bitter terms.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Kroudar dumped his sack of }{
\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 trodi}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  onto a storage hut porch, mopped his forehead. The joints of his arms and legs ached. His back ached. He could feel the sickness of }{
\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 this place}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  in his bowels. Again, he wiped perspiration from his forehead, removed the red cloth he wore to protect his head from that brutal sun.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
Yellow hair fell down as he loosed the cloth, and he swung the hair back over his shoulders.
\par It would be dark very soon.
\par The red cloth was dirty, he saw. It would require another gentle washing. Kroudar thought it odd, this cloth: grown and woven on Mother Earth, it would end its days on }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 this place.}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par Even as he and the others.
\par He stared at the cloth for a moment before placing it carefully in a pocket.
\par All around him, his fishermen were going through the familiar ritual. Brown sacks woven of coarse native roots were dumped dripping onto the storage hut porches. Some of his men leaned then against the porch uprights, some sprawled in the sand.
\par Kroudar lifted his gaze. Fires behind the bluff above them sent smoke spirals into the darkening sky. Kroudar was suddenly hungry. He thought of Technician Honida up there at the cookfire, their twin sons\emdash two years old next week\emdash 
nearby at the door of the shipmetal long-house.
\par It stirred him to think of Honida. She had chosen }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 him.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
 With men from the Scientist class and the Technicians available to her, Honida had reached down into the Labor pool to tap the one they all called \'93Old Ugly.\'94 He wasn\rquote t old, Kroudar reminded himself. But he knew the source of the name. }{
\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 This place}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  had worked its changes on him with more visible evidence than upon any of the others.
\par Kroudar held no illusions about why he had been brought on this human migration. It was his muscles and his minimal education. The reason was embodied in that label written down in the ship manifest\emdash 
laborer. The planners back on Mother Earth had realized there were tasks which required human muscles not inhibited by too much thinking. The }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 kroudars}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
 landed }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 here}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  were not numerous, but they knew each other and they knew themselves for what they were.
\par There\rquote d even been talk among the higher echelons of not allowing Honida to choose him as mate. Kroudar knew this. He did not resent it particularly. It didn\rquote t even bother him that the vote among the biologists\emdash they\rquote 
d discussed his ugliness at great length, so it was reported\emdash favored Honida\rquote s choice on philosophical rather than physical grounds.
\par Kroudar knew he was ugly.
\par He knew also that his present hunger was a good sign. A strong desire to
 see his family grew in him, beginning to ignite his muscles for the climb from the beach. Particularly, he wanted to see his twins, the one yellow-haired like himself, and the other dark as Honida. The other women favored with children looked down upon h
i
s twins as stunted and sickly, Kroudar knew. The women fussed over diets and went running to the medics almost every day. But as long as Honida did not worry, Kroudar remained calm, Honida, after all, was a technician, a worker in the hydroponics gardens.

\par Kroudar moved his bare feet softly in the sand. Once more, he looked up at the bluff. Along the edge grew scattered native trees. Their thick trunks hugged the ground, gnarled and twisted, supports for bulbous, yellow-green leaves that exuded poisonous mi
lky sap in the heat of the day. A few of the surviving Earth-falcons perched in the trees, silent, watchful.
\par The birds gave Kroudar an odd confidence in his own decisions. For what do the falcons watch, he wondered. It was a question the most exalted of the colony\rquote s thinkers had not been able to answer. Search \rquote 
copters had been sent out following the falcons. The birds flew offshore in the night, rested occasionally on barren islands, and returned at dawn. The colony command had been unwilling to risk its pr
ecious boats in the search, and the mystery of the falcons remained unsolved.
\par It was doubly a mystery because the other birds had perished or flown off to some unfound place. The doves, the quail\emdash the gamebirds and songbirds\emdash all had vanished. And the domest
ic chickens had all died, their eggs infertile. Kroudar knew this as a comment by }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 this place,}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  a warning for the life that came from Mother Earth.

\par A few scrawny cattle survived, and several calves had been born }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 here.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  But they moved with a listless gait and 
there was distressed lowing in the pastures. Looking into their eyes was like looking into open wounds. A few pigs still lived, as listless and sickly as the cattle, and all the wild creatures had strayed off or died. Except the falcons.
\par How odd it was, because the people who planned and conceived profound thoughts had held such hopes for }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 this place.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
 The survey reports had been exciting. This was a planet without native land animals. It was a planet whose native plants appeared not too different from those of Mother Earth\emdash 
in some respects. And the sea creatures were primitive by sophisticated evolutionary standards.
\par Without being able to put it into those beautifully polished phrases which others admired, Kroudar knew where the mistake had been made. Sometimes, you had to search out a problem with your flesh and not with your mind.
\par He stared around now at the motley rags of his men. They were }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 his}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  men. He was the master fisherman, the one who had found the }{
\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 trodi}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  and conceived these squat, ugly boats built with
in the limitations of native woods. The colony was alive now because of his skills with boat and net.
\par There would be more gaps in the }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 trodi}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
 runs, though. Kroudar felt this as an awareness on the edges of his fatigue. There would be unpopular and dangerous things to do then, all necessary because }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 thinking}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  had failed. The salmon they had introduced, according to plan, had gone into the ocean vastness. The flatfish in the colony\rquote 
s holding ponds suffered mysterious attrition. Insects flew away and were never seen again.
\par There\rquote s food here, the biologists argued. Why do they die?
\par The colony\rquote s maize was a sometime thing with strange ears. Wheat came up in scabrous patches. There were no familiar patterns of growth or migration. The colony lived on the thin edge of existence, maintained by protein bulk from the processed }{
\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 trodi}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
 and vitamins from vegetables grown hydroponically with arduous filtering and adjustment of their water. Breakdown of a single system in the chain could bring disaster.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 The giant orange sun show
ed only a small arc above the sea horizon now, and Kroudar\rquote s men were stirring themselves, lifting their tired bodies off the sand, pushing away from the places where they had leaned.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 \'93All right now,\'94 Kroudar ordered. 
\'93Let\rquote s get this food inside on the racks.\'94
\par \'93Why?\'94 someone asked from the dusk: \'93You think the falcons will eat it?\'94
\par They all knew the falcons would not eat the }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 trodi.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
 Kroudar recognized the objection: it was tiredness of the mind speaking. The shrimp creatures fed only humans\emdash after careful processing to remove dangerous irritants. A falcon might take up a frond-legged }{
\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 trodi,}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  but would drop it at the first taste.
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 What did they eat, those waiting birds?}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par Falcons knew a thing about }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 this place}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  that humans did not know. The birds knew it in their flesh in the way Kroudar sought the knowledge.
\par Darkness fell, and with a furious clatter, the falcons flew off toward the sea. One of Kroudar\rquote s men kindled a torch and, having rested, anxious now to climb the bluff and join their families, the fishermen pitch
ed into the work that must be done. Boats were hauled up on rollers. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Trodi}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
 were spread out in thin layers along racks within the storage huts. Nets were draped on racks to dry.
\par As he worked, Kroudar wondered about the scientists up there in the shining laboratories. He had the working man\rquote s awe of knowledge, a servility in the face of titles and things clearly superior, but he had also the simple man\rquote 
s sure awareness of when superior things failed.
\par Kroudar was not privy to the high-level conferences in the 
colony command, but he knew the physical substance of the ideas discussed there. His awareness of failure and hovering disaster had no sophisticated words or erudition to hold itself dancingly before men\rquote 
s minds, but his knowledge carried its own elegance. He drew on ancient knowledge adjusted subtly to the differences of }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 this place.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
 Kroudar had found the }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 trodi.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
 Kroudar had organized the methods of capturing them and preserving them. He had no refined labels to explain it, but Kroudar knew himself for what he could do and what he was.
\par He was the first sea peasant }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 here.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par Without wasting energy on talk, Kroudar\rquote s band finished the work, turned away from the storage huts and plodded up the cliff trail, their course marked by, here and there, men with flaming tor
ches. There were fuzzy orange lights, heavy shadows, inching their way upward in a black world, and they gave heart to Kroudar.
\par Lingering to the last, he checked the doors of the huts, then followed, hurrying to catch up. The man directly ahead of him on the path carried a torch, native wood soaked in }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 trodi}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  oil. It flickered and smoked and gave off poisonous fumes. The light revealed a troglodyte figure, a human clad in patched shipcloth, body too thin, muscles moving on the edge of collapse.
\par Kroudar sighed.
\par It was not like this on Mother Earth, he knew. There, the women waited on the strand for their men to return from the sea. Children played among the pebbles. Eager hands helped with the work onshore, spreading the nets, carrying the catch, pulling the bo
ats.
\par Not }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 here.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par And the perils }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 here}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  were not the perils of Home. Kroudar\rquote 
s boats never strayed out of sight of these cliffs. One boat always carried a technician with a radio for contact with shore. Before its final descent, the colony ship had seeded space
 with orbiting devices-watchers, guardians against surprises from the weather. The laboriously built fishing fleet always had ample warning of storms. No monster sea creatures had ever been seen in that ocean.
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 This place}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  lacked the cruel savagery and variety of seas Kroudar had known, but it was nonetheless deadly. He }{
\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 knew}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  this.
\par The women should wait for us on the shore, he thought.
\par But colony command said the women\emdash and even some of the children\emdash were needed for too many other tasks. Individual plants from h
ome required personal attention. Single wheat stalks were nurtured with tender care. Each orchard tree existed with its own handmaiden, its guardian dryad.
\par Atop the cliff, the fishermen came in sight of the long-houses, shipmetal }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 quonsets}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  named for some fa
r distant place and time in human affairs. Scattered electric lights ringed the town. Many of the unpaved streets wandered off unlit. There were mechanical sounds here and murmurous voices.
\par The men scattered to their own affairs now, no longer a band. Krou
dar plodded down his street toward the open cook fires in the central plaza. The open fires were a necessity to conserve the more sophisticated energies of the colony. Some looked upon those flames as admission of defeat. Kroudar saw them as victory. It w
as }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 native}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  wood being burned.
\par Off in the hills beyond the town, he knew, stood the ruins of the wind machines they had built. The storm which had wreaked that destruction had achieved no surprise in its coming, but had left enormous surprise at its power.
\par For Kroudar, the }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 thinkers}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
 had begun to diminish in stature then. When native chemistry and water life had wrecked the turbines in the river which emptied into the harbor, those men of knowledge had shrunk even more. Then it was that Kroudar had begun his own
 search for native foods.
\par Now, Kroudar heard, native plant life threatened the cooling systems for their atomic generators, defying radiation in a way no life should. Some among the technicians already were fashioning steam engines of materials not intende
d for such use. Soon, they would have native metals, though-materials to resist the wild etchings and rusts of }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 this place.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par They might succeed\emdash provided the dragging sickness did not sap them further.
\par If they survived.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Honida awaited him at the door to their
 quarters, smiling, graceful. Her dark hair was plaited and wound in rings around her forehead. The brown eyes were alive with welcome. Firelight from the plaza cast a familiar glow across her olive skin. The high cheekbones of her Amerind ancestry, the f
ull lips and proudly hooked nose\emdash all filled him with remembered excitement.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Kroudar wondered if the }{
\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 planners}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  had known this thing about her which gave him such warmth\emdash her strength and fecundity. She had chosen }{
\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 him,}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  and now she carried more of their children\emdash twins again.
\par \'93Ahhh, my fisherman is home,\'94 she said, embracing him in the doorway for anybody to see.
\par They went inside then, closed the door, and she held him with more ardor, stared up into his face which, reflected in her eyes, lost some of its ugliness. \'93Honida,\'94 he said, unable to find other words. Presently, he asked about the boys. \'93They
\rquote re asleep,\'94 she said, leading him to the crude trestle table he had built for their kitchen.
\par He nodded. Later, he would go in and stare at his sons. It did not bother him that they slept so much. He could feel the reasons for this somewhere within himself.
\par Honida had hot }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 trodi}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
 soup waiting for him on the table. It was spiced with hydroponic tomatoes and peas and contained other things which he knew she gathered from the land without telling the scientists.
\par Whatever she put in front of him, Kroudar ate. There was bread tonight with an odd musty flavor which he found pleasant. In the light of the single lamp they were permitted for this room, he stared at a piece of the bread. It was almost purple\emdash 
like the sea. He chewed it, swallowed, Honida, watchfully eating across from him, finished her bread and soup, asked: \'93Do you like the bread?\'94
\par \'93I like it.\'94
\par \'93I made it myself in the coals,\'94 she said.
\par He nodded, took another slice.
\par Honida refilled his soup bowl.
\par They were privileged, Kroudar realized, to have this privacy for their meals. Many of the others had opted for communal cooking and eating\emdash even among the technicians and higher echelons who possessed more freedom of choice.
 Honida had seen something about }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 this place,}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  though, which required secrecy and going private ways.
\par Kroudar, hunger satisfied, stared across the table at her. He adored her with a devotion that went far deeper than the excitement of her flesh. He could not
 say the thing she was, but he knew it. If they were to have a future here, that future was in Honida and the things he might learn, form and construct of himself with his own flesh.
\par Under the pressure of his eyes, Honida arose, came around the table and began massaging the muscles of his back\emdash the very muscles he used to haul the nets.
\par \'93You\rquote re tired,\'94 she said. \'93Was it difficult out there today?\'94
\par \'93Hard work,\'94 Kroudar said.
\par He admired the way she spoke. She had many words at her disposal. He had heard her us
e some of them during colony meetings and during the time of their application for mating choice. She had words for things he did not know, and she knew also when to speak with her body rather than with her mouth. She knew about the muscles of his back.

\par Kroudar felt such a love for her then that he wondered if it went up through her fingers into her body.
\par \'93We filled the boats,\'94 he said.
\par \'93I was told today that we\rquote ll soon need more storage huts,\'94 she said. \'93They\rquote re worried about sparing the labor for the building.\'94
\par \'93Ten more huts,\'94 he said.
\par She would pass that word along, he knew. Somehow, it would be done. The other technicians listened to Honida. Many among the scientists scoffed at her; it could be heard beneath the blandness of their voices. Perhaps it was
 because she had chosen Kroudar for mate. But technicians listened. The huts would be built.
\par And they would be filled before the }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 trodi}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  run stopped.
\par Kroudar realized then that he knew when the run would stop, not as a date, but almost as a physical thing which he could reach out and touch. He longed for the words to explain this to Honida.
\par She gave his back a final kneading, sat down beside him and leaned her dark head against his chest. \'93If you\rquote re not too tired,\'94 she said, \'93I have something to show you.\'94
\par Wi
th a feeling of surprise, Kroudar became aware of unspoken excitement in Honida. Was it something about the hydroponic gardens where she worked? His thoughts went immediately to that place upon which the scientists pinned their hopes, the place where they
 chose the tall plants, the beautiful, engorged with richness from Mother Earth. Had they achieved something important at last? Was there, after all, a clear way to make }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 this place}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  arable?
\par Kroudar was a primitive then wanting his gods redeemed. He found himself full of peasant hopes for the land. Even a sea peasant knew the value of land.
\par He and Honida had responsibilities, though. He nodded questioningly toward the twins\rquote  bedroom.
\par \'93I arranged\'85\'94 She gestured toward their neighbor\rquote s cubicle. \'93They will listen.\'94
\par She had planned this, then. Kroudar stood up, held out his hand for her. \'93Show me.\'94
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
They went out into the night. Their town was quieter now; he could hear the distant roistering of the river. For a moment, he thought he heard a cricket, but reason told
 him it could only be one of the huts cooling in the night. He longed wordlessly for a moon.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
Honida had brought one of the rechargeable electric torches, the kind issued to technicians against emergency calls in the night. Seeing that torch, Kroudar sensed a deeper importance in this mysterious thing she wanted to show him. Honida had the peasant
\rquote s hoarding instinct. She would not waste such a torch.
\par Instead of leading him toward the green lights and glass roofs of the hydroponic gardens, though, she guided their steps in the opposite direction toward the deep gorge where the river plunged into the harbor.
\par There were no guards along the footpath, only an occasional stone marker and grotesqueries of native growth. Swiftly, without speaking, she led him to the
 gorge and the narrow path which he knew went only down to a ledge which jutted into the damp air of the river\rquote s spray.
\par Kroudar found himself trembling with excitement as he followed Honida\rquote s shadowy figure, the firefly darting of her light. It was cold on the ledge and the alien outline of native trees revealed by the torch filled Kroudar with disquiet.
\par What had Honida discovered\emdash or created?
\par Condensation dripped from the plants here. The river noise was loud. It was marsh air he breathed, dank and filled with bizarre odors.
\par Honida stopped, and Kroudar held his breath. He listened. There was only the river.
\par For a moment, he didn\rquote t realize that Honida was directing the orange light of the torch at her discovery. It looked like one of the native plants\emdash a thing
 with a thick stem crouched low to the land, gnarled and twisted, bulbous yellow-green protrusions set with odd spacing along its length.
\par Slowly, realization came over him. He recognized a darker tone in the green, the way the leaf structures were joined to the stalk, a bunching of brown-yellow silk drooping from the bulbous protrusions. \'93Maize,\'94 he whispered.
\par In a low voice, pitching her explanation to Kroudar\rquote s vocabulary, Honida explained what she had done. He saw it in her words, understood why she had 
done this thing stealthily, here away from the scientists. He took the light from her, crouched, stared with rapt attention. This meant the death of those things the scientists held beautiful. It ended their plan for }{
\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 this place.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par Kroudar could see his own descendants in this plant. They might develop bulbous heads, hairless, wide thick-lipped mouths. Their skins might become purple. They would be short statured; he knew that.
\par Honida had assured this\emdash right here on the river-drenched ledge. Instead of selecting seed from the tallest, the straightest stalks, the ones with the longest and most perfect ears\emdash the ones most like those from Mother Earth\emdash 
she had tested her maize almost to destruction. She had chosen sickly, scrawny plants, ones barely able to produce seed. She had taken only those plants which }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 this place}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  influenced most deeply. From these, she had selected finally a strain which lived }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 here}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
 as native plants lived. This was }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 native}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  maize.
\par She broke off an ear, peeled back the husk.
\par There were gaps in the seed rows and, when she squeezed a kernel, the juice ran purple. He recognized the smell of the bread.
\par Here was the thing the scientists would not admit. They were trying to make }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 this place}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
 into another Earth. But it was not and it could never be. The falcons had been the first among their creatures to discover this, he suspected.
\par The statement Honida made here was that she and Kroudar would be short-lived. Their children would be sickly by Mother Earth\rquote s standards. Their descendants would change in ways tha
t defied the hopes of those who had planned this migration. The scientists would hate this and try to stop it.
\par This gnarled stalk of maize said the scientists would fail.
\par For a long while, Kroudar crouched there, staring into the future until the torch began to dim, losing its charge. He aroused himself then, led the way back out of the gorge.
\par At the top, with the lights of their dying civilization visible across the plain, he stopped, said: \'93The }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 trodi}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  run will stop\'85
 soon. I will take one boat and\'85 friends. We will go out where the falcons go.\'94
\par It was one of the longest speeches he had ever made.
\par She took the light from his hand, extinguished it, pressed herself against him.
\par \'93What do you think the falcons have found?\'94
\par \'93The seed,\'94 he said.
\par He shook his head. He could not explain it, but the thing was there in his awareness. Everything here exuded poisonous vapors, or juices in which only its own seed could live. Why should the }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 trodi}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  or any other sea creature be different? And, with the falcons as evidence, the seed must be slightly less poisonous to the intruders from Mother Earth.
\par \'93The boats are slow,\'94 she said.
\par He agreed silently. A storm could trap them too far out for a run to safety. It would be dangerous. But he heard also in her voice that she was not trying to stop him or dissuade him.
\par \'93I will take good men,\'94 he said.
\par \'93How long will you be gone?\'94 Honida asked.
\par He thought about this for a moment. The rhythms of }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 this place}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  were beginning to make themselves known to him. His awareness shaped the journey, th
e days out, the night search over the water where the falcons were known to sweep in their low guiding runs\emdash then the return.
\par \'93Eight days,\'94 he said.
\par \'93You\rquote ll need fine mesh nets,\'94 she said. \'93I\rquote ll see to having them made. Perhaps a few technicians, too. I know some who will go with you.\'94
\par \'93Eight days,\'94 he said, telling her to choose strong men.
\par \'93Yes,\'94 she said. \'93Eight days. I\rquote ll be waiting on the shore when you return.\'94
\par He took her hand then and led the way back across the plain. As they walked, he said: \'93We must name }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 this place.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 \'94
\par \'93When you come back,\'94 she said.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\qc \li595\ri595\sb1440\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \b\fs48\lang1049\langfe1049\kerning36\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
{\*\bkmkstart _The_Nothing}{\*\bkmkend _The_Nothing}The Nothing
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 If it hadn\rquote 
t been for the fight with my father I\rquote d never have gone down to the Tavern and then I wouldn\rquote t have met the }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Nothing.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  This }{
\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Nothing}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  was really just an ordinary looking guy. He wasn\rquote t
 worth special attention unless, like me, you were pretending you were Maria Graim, the feelies star, and him Sidney Harch meeting you in the bar to give you a spy capsule.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 It was all my father\rquote 
s fault. Imagine him getting angry because I wouldn\rquote t take a job burning brush. What kind of work is that for an eighteen-year-old girl anyway? I know my folks were hard pressed for money but that was no excuse for the way he lit into me.
\par We had the fight over lunch but it was after six o\rquote clock before I got the chanc
e to sneak out of the house. I went down to the Tavern because I knew the old man would be madder than a tele in a lead barrel when he found out. There was no way I could keep it from him, of course. He pried me every time I came home.
\par The Tavern is a crossroads place where the talent gets together to compare notes, and talk about jobs. I\rquote 
d only been in there once before, and that time with my father. He warned me not to go there alone because a lot of the jags used the place. You could smell the stuff all 
over the main room. There was pink smoke from a pyro bowl drifting up around the rafters. Someone had a Venusian Oin filter going. There was a lot of talent there for so early in the evening.
\par I found an empty corner of the bar and ordered a blue fire because I\rquote d seen Maria Graim ask for one in the feelies. The bartender stared at me sharply and I suspected he was a tele, but he didn\rquote 
t pry. After a while he floated my drink up to me and \rquote ported away my money. I sipped the drink the way I\rquote d seen Maria Graim do, but it was too sweet. I tried not to let my face show anything.
\par The bar mirror gave me a good broad view of the room and I kept looking into it as though I was expecting somebody. Then this big blond young man came through the front door. I saw him in t
he mirror and immediately knew he was going to take the seat beside me. I\rquote m not exactly a prescient, but sometimes those things are obvious. He came across the room, moving with a gladiator ease between the packed tables. That\rquote 
s when I pretended I was Maria Graim waiting at a Port Said bar to pick up a spy capsule from Sidney Harch like in the feelie I\rquote d seen Sunday. This fellow did look a little like Harch\emdash 
curly hair, dark blue eyes, face all sharp angles as if it had been chiseled by a sculptor who\rquote d left the job uncompleted.
\par He took the stool beside me as I\rquote d known he would, and ordered a blue fire, easy on the sugar. Naturally, I figured this was a get-acquainted gambit and wondered what to say to him. Suddenly, it struck me as an exciting idea to just r
ide along with the Maria Graim plot until it came time to leave.
\par He couldn\rquote t do anything to stop me even if he was a \rquote porter. You see, I\rquote m a pyro and that\rquote s a good enough defense for anyone. I glanced down at my circa-twenty skirt and shifted until the slit exposed my garter the way I
\rquote d seen Maria Graim do it. This blond lad didn\rquote t give it a tumble. He finished his drink, and ordered another.
\par I whiffed him for one of the cokes, but he was dry. No jag. The other stuff in the room was getting through to me, though, and I was feeling dizzy. I knew I\rquote d have to leave soon and I\rquote 
d never get another chance to be a Maria Graim type; so I said, \'93What\rquote s yours?\'94
\par Oh, he knew I was talking to him all right, but he didn\rquote t even look up. It made me mad. A girl has some pride and there I\rquote 
d unbent enough to start the conversation! There was an ashtray piled with scraps of paper in front of him. I concentrated on it and the paper suddenly flamed. I\rquote m a good pyro when I want to be. Some men have been kind enough to say I could s
tart a fire without the talent. But with a prying father like mine how could I ever know?
\par The fire got this fellow\rquote s attention. He knew I\rquote d started it. He just glanced at me once and turned away. \'93Leave me alone,\'94 he said. \'93I\rquote m a }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Nothing.}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 \'94
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 I don\rquote t know wha
t it was. Maybe I have a little of the tele like that doctor said once, but I knew he was telling the truth. It wasn\rquote t one of those gags like you see in the feelies. You know\emdash where there are two comedians and one says, \'93What\rquote 
s yours?\'94 And the other one answers, \'93Nothing.\'94
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Only all the time he\rquote 
s levitating the other guy\rquote s chair and juggling half a dozen things behind his back, no hands. You know the gag. It\rquote s been run into the ground. Well, when he said that, it kind of set me back. I\rquote d never seen a real-life }{
\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Nothing}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  before. Oh, I knew there were some. In the government preserves and such, but I\rquote d never been like this\emdash right next to one.
\par \'93Sorry,\'94 I said. \'93I\rquote m a pyro.\'94
\par He glanced at the ashes in the tray and said, \'93Yeah, I know.\'94
\par \'93There\rquote s not much work for pyros anymore,\'94 I said. \'93It\rquote s the only talent I have.\'94 I turned and looked at him. Handsome in spite of being a }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Nothing.}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  \'93What did you do?\'94 I asked.
\par \'93I ran away,\'94 he said. \'93I\rquote m a fugitive from the Sonoma Preserve.\'94
\par That made my blood tingle. Not only a }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Nothing,}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  but a fugitive, too. Just like in the feelies. I said, \'93Do you want to hide out at my place?\'94

\par That brought him around. He looked me over and he actually blushed. Actually! I\rquote d never seen a man blush before. That fellow certainly was loaded with firsts for me.
\par \'93People might get the wrong idea when I\rquote m caught,\'94 he said. \'93I\rquote m sure to be caught eventually. I always am.\'94
\par I was really getting a feeling for that woman-of-the-world part. \'93Why not enjoy your freedom then?\'94 I asked.
\par I let him see a little more through the circa-twenty slit. He actually turned away! Imagine!
\par That\rquote s when the police came. They didn\rquote t make any fuss. I\rquote d noticed these two men standing just inside the door watching us. Only I\rquote d thought they were watching me. They came across the room and 
one of them bent over this fellow.
\par \'93All right, Claude,\'94 he said. \'93Come quietly.\'94
\par The other took my arm and said, \'93You\rquote ll have to come, too, sister.\'94
\par I jerked away from him. \'93I\rquote m not your sister,\'94 I said.
\par \'93Oh, leave her alone, fellows,\'94 said this Claude. \'93I didn\rquote t tell her anything. She was just trying to pick me up.\'94
\par \'93Sorry,\'94 said the cop. \'93She comes, too.\'94
\par That\rquote s when I began to get scared. \'93Look,\'94 I said. \'93I don\rquote t know what this is all about.\'94
\par The man showed me the snout of a hypo gun in his pocket. \'93Stop the commotion and come quietly, sister, or I\rquote ll have to use this,\'94 he said.
\par So who wants to go to sleep? I went quietly, praying we\rquote d run into my father or someone I knew so I could explain things. But no such luck.
\par The police had a plain old jet buggy outside with people clustered around looking at it. A \rquote porter in the crowd was having fun jiggling the rear end up and down off the ground. He was standing back with his hands in his pockets, grinning.
\par The cop who\rquote d done all the talking just looked toward this \rquote porter and the fellow lost his grin and hurried away. I knew then the cop was a tele, although he hadn\rquote t touched my mind. They\rquote 
re awfully sensitive about their code of ethics, some of those teles.
\par It was fun riding in that old jet buggy. I\rquote d never been
 in one before. One of the cops got in back with Claude and me. The other one drove. It was the strangest feeling, flying up over the bay on the tractors. Usually, whenever I wanted to go someplace, I\rquote d just ask, polite like, was there a \rquote 
porter around and then I\rquote d think of where I wanted to go and the \rquote porter would set me down there quick as a wink.
\par Of course, I wound up in some old gent\rquote s apartment now and then. Some \rquote porters do that sort of thing for a fee. But a pyro doesn\rquote t have to worry about would-be
 Casanovas. No old gent is going to fool around when his clothes are on fire.
\par Well, the jet buggy finally set down on an old hospital grounds way back up in the sticks and the cops took us to the main building and into a little office. Walking, mind you. It was shady in the office\emdash not enough lights\emdash 
and it took a minute for my eyes to adjust after the bright lights in the hall. When they did adjust and I saw the old codger behind the desk I did a real double take. It was Mensor Williams. Yeah. The }{
\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Big All.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  Anything anybody else can do he can do better.
\par Somebody worked a switch somewhere and the lights brightened. \'93Good evening, Miss Carlysle,\'94 he said and his little goatee bobbled.
\par Before I could make a crack about ethics against reading minds, he said, \'93I\rquote m not intruding into your mental processes. I\rquote ve merely scanned forward to a point where I learn your name.\'94
\par A prescient, too!
\par \'93There really wasn\rquote t any need to bring her,\'94 he told the cops. \'93But it was inevitable that you would.\'94 Then he did the funniest thing. He turned to Claude and nodded his head toward me. \'93How do you like her, Claude?\'94
 he asked. Just like I was something offered for sale or something!
\par Claude said, \'93Is she the one, Dad?\'94
\par Dad! That one smacked me. The }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Big All}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  has a kid and the kid\rquote s a }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Nothing}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 !
\par \'93She\rquote s the one,\'94 said Williams.
\par Claude kind of squared his shoulders and said, \'93Well, I\rquote m going to throw a stick into the works. I won\rquote t do it!\'94
\par \'93Yes, you will,\'94 said Williams.
\par This was all way over my head and I\rquote d had about enough anyway. I said, \'93Now wait a minute, gentlemen, or I\rquote ll set the place on fire! I mean literally!\'94
\par \'93She can do it, too,\'94 said Claude, grinning at his father.
\par \'93But she won\rquote t,\'94 said Williams.
\par \'93Oh, won\rquote t I?\'94 I said. \'93Well, you just try and stop me!\'94
\par \'93No need to do that,\'94 said Williams. \'93I\rquote ve seen what\rquote s going to happen.\'94
\par Just like that! These prescients give me the creeps. Sometimes I wonder if they don\rquote t give themselves the creeps. Living for them must be like repeating a part you already know. Not for me. I said, \'93What would ha
ppen if I did something different from what you\rquote d seen?\'94
\par Williams leaned forward with an interested look in his eyes. \'93It\rquote s never happened,\'94 he said. \'93If it did happen once, that\rquote d be a real precedent.\'94
\par I can\rquote t be sure, but looking at him there, I got the idea he\rquote d really be interested to see something happen different from his forecast. I thought of starting a little fire, maybe in the papers on his desk. But somehow the idea didn\rquote 
t appeal to me. It wasn\rquote t that any presence was in my mind telling me not to. I don\rquote t know exactly what it was. I just didn\rquote t }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 want}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  to do it. I said, \'93What\rquote s the meaning of all this double talk?\'94
\par The old man leaned back and I swear he seemed kind of disappointed. He said, \'93It\rquote s just that you and Claude are going to be married.\'94
\par I opened my mouth to speak and nothing came out. Finally, I managed to stammer, \'93You mean you\rquote ve looked into the future and seen us }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 married}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
? How many kids we\rquote re going to have and everything like that?\'94
\par \'93Well, not everything,\'94 he said. \'93All things in the future aren\rquote t clear to us. Only certain mainline developments. And we can\rquote t see too far into the future for most things. The past is easier. That\rquote s been fixed immovably.\'94

\par \'93And what if we don\rquote t want to?\'94 asked Claude.
\par \'93Yeah,\'94 I said. \'93What about that?\'94 But I have to admit the idea wasn\rquote t totally repulsive. As I\rquote ve said, Claude looked like Sidney Harch, only younger. He had something\emdash you can call it animal magnetism if you wish.
\par The old man just smiled. \'93Miss Carlysle,\'94 he said, \'93do you honestly object to\emdash \'94
\par \'93As long as I\rquote m going to be in the family you can call me Jean,\'94 I said.
\par I was beginning to feel fatalistic about the whole thing. My great aunt Harriet was a prescient and I\rquote d had experience with them. Now I was remembering the time she told me my kitty was goi
ng to die and I hid it in the old cistern and that night it rained and filled the cistern. Naturally the kitty drowned. I never forgave her for not telling me how the kitty was going to die.
\par Old Williams looked at me and said, \'93At least }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 you\rquote re}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  being reasonable.\'94
\par \'93I\rquote m not,\'94 said Claude. So I told them about my great aunt Harriet. \'93It\rquote s the nature of things,\'94 said Williams. \'93Why can\rquote t you be as reasonable as she\rquote s being, son?\'94
\par Claude just sat there with the original stone face. \'93Am I so repulsive?\'94 I asked.
\par He looked at me then. Really looked. I tell you I got warm under it. I know I\rquote m not repulsive. Finally, I guess I blushed.
\par \'93You\rquote re not repulsive,\'94 he said. \'93I just object to having my whole life ordered out for me like a chess set up.\'94
\par Stalemate. We sat there for a minute or so, completely silent. Presently Williams turned to me and said, \'93Well, Miss Carlysle, I presume you\rquote re curious about what\rquote s going on here.\'94
\par \'93I\rquote m not a moron,\'94 I said. \'93This is one of the }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Nothing}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  Preserves.\'94
\par \'93Correct,\'94 he said. \'93Only it\rquote s more than that. Your education includes the knowledge of how our talents developed from radiation mutants. Does it also include the knowledge of what happens to extremes from the norm?\'94
 Every schoolkid knows that, of course. So I told him. Sure I knew that the direction of development was toward the average. That genius parents tend to have children less smart than they are. This is just general information.
\par Then the old man threw me the twister. \'93The talents are disappearing, my dear,\'94 he said.
\par I just sat there and thought about that for a while. Certainly I knew it\rquote d been harder lately to get a \rquote porter, even one of the old gent kind.
\par \'93Each generation has more children without talents or with talents greatly dulled,\'94 said Williams. \'93We will never reach a point where there are absolutely none, but what few remain will be needed for special jobs in the public interest.\'94

\par \'93You mean if I have kids they\rquote re liable to be }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Nothings}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 ?\'94 I asked.
\par \'93Look at your own family,\'94 he said. \'93Your great aunt was a prescient. Have there been any others in your family?\'94
\par \'93Well, no, but\emdash \'94
\par \'93The prescient talent is an extreme,\'94 he said. \'93There are fewer than a thousand left. There are nine of us in my category. I believe you refer to us as the }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Big All.}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 \'94
\par \'93But we\rquote ve got to do something!\'94 I said. \'93The world\rquote ll just go to pot!\'94
\par \'93We }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 are}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  doing something,\'94 he said. \'93Right here and on eight other preserves scattered around the world. We\rquote 
re reviving the mechanical and tool skills which supported the pretalent civilization and we\rquote re storing the instruments which will make a rebirth of that civilization possible.\'94
\par He raised a warning hand. \'93But we must move in secrecy. The world\rquote s not yet ready for this information. It would cause a most terrible panic if this were to become known.\'94
\par \'93Well, you\rquote re prescient. What does happen?\'94 I asked him.
\par \'93Unfortunately, none of us are able to determine that,\'94 he said. \'93Either it\rquote s an unfixed line or there\rquote s some interference which we can\rquote t surmount.\'94 He shook his head and the goatee wiggled. \'93There\rquote 
s a cloudy area in the near future beyond which we can\rquote t see. None of us.\'94
\par That scared me. A prescient may give you the creeps, but it\rquote s nice to know there\rquote s a future into which someone can see. It was as if there suddenly wasn\rquote t any future\emdash period. I began to cry a little.
\par \'93And our children will be }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Nothings,}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 \'94 I said.
\par \'93Well, not exactly,\'94 said Williams. \'93Some of them, maybe, but we\rquote ve taken the trouble of comparing your gene lines\emdash yours and Claude\rquote s. You\rquote ve a good chance of having offspring who will be prescient or telepathi
c or both. A better than seventy percent chance.\'94 His voice got pleading. \'93The world\rquote s going to need that chance.\'94
\par Claude came over and put a hand on my shoulder. It sent a delicious tingle up my spine. Suddenly, I got a little flash of his thoughts\emdash a picture of us kissing. I\rquote m not really a tele, but like I said, sometimes I get glimmers.
\par Claude said, \'93Okay. I guess there\rquote s no sense fighting the inevitable. We\rquote ll get married.\'94
\par No more argument. We all traipsed into another room and there was a preacher with everything ready for us, even the ring. Another prescient. He\rquote d come more than a hundred miles to perform the ceremony, he said.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
Afterward, I let Claude kiss me once. I was having trouble realizing that I was married. Mrs. Claude Williams. But that\rquote s the way it is with the inevitable, I guess.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
The old man took my arm then and said there was one small precaution. I\rquote d be going off the grounds from time to time and there\rquote d always be the chance of some unethical tele picking my brains.
\par They put me under an anesthetube and when I came out of it I had a silver grid in my skull. It itched some, but they said that it would go away. I\rquote d heard of this thing. They called it a blanket.
\par Mensor Williams said, \'93Now go home and get your things. You won\rquote t need to tell your parents any more than that you have a government job. Come back as soon as you\rquote re able.\'94
\par \'93Get me a \rquote porter,\'94 I said.
\par \'93The grounds are gridded against teleporters,\'94 he said. \'93I\rquote ll have to send you in a jet buggy.\'94
\par And so he did.
\par I was home in ten minutes.
\par I went up the stairs to my house. It was after nine o\rquote clock by then. My father was waiting inside the door.
\par \'93A fine time for an eighteen-year-old girl to be coming home!\'94 he shouted and he made a tele stab at my mind to see what I\rquote d been up to. These teles and their ethics! Well, he ran smack dab into the blanket and maybe you think that didn
\rquote t set him back on his heels. He got all quiet suddenly.
\par I said, \'93I have a government job. I just came back for my things.\'94 Time enough to tell them about the marriage later. They\rquote d have kicked up a fine rumpus if I\rquote d said anything then.
\par Mama came in and said, \'93My little baby with a government job! How much does it pay?\'94
\par I said, \'93Let\rquote s not be vulgar.\'94
\par Papa sided with me. \'93Of course not, Hazel,\'94 he said. \'93Leave the kid alone. A government job! What do you know! Those things pay plenty. Where is it, baby?\'94
\par I could see him wondering how much he could tap me for to pay his bills and I began to wonder if I\rquote d have any money at all to keep up the pretense. I said, \'93The job\rquote s at Sonoma Preserve.\'94
\par Papa said, \'93What they need with a pyro up there?\'94
\par I got a brilliant inspiration. I said, \'93To keep the }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Nothings}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  in line. A little burn here, a little burn there. You know.\'94
\par That struck my father funny. When he could stop laughing he said, \'93I know you, honey. I\rquote ve watched your think tank pretty close. You\rquote ll take care of yourself and no funny business. Do they have nice safe quarters for you up there?\'94

\par \'93The safest,\'94 I said.
\par I felt him take another prod at my blanket and withdraw. \'93Government work is top secret,\'94 I said.
\par \'93Sure. I understand,\'94 he said.
\par So I went to my room and got my things packed. The folks made some more fuss about my going away so sudden, but they quieted down when I told them I had to go at once or lose the chance at the job.
\par Papa finally said, \'93Well, if }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 the}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  government isn\rquote t safe, then nothing is.\'94
\par They kissed me goodbye and I promised to write and to visit home on my first free weekend.
\par \'93Don\rquote t worry, Papa,\'94 I said.
\par The jet buggy took me back to the preserve. When I went into the office, Claude, my husband, was sitting across the desk from his father.
\par The old man had his hands to his forehead and there were beads of perspiration showing where the fingers didn\rquote t cover. Presently, he lowered his hands and shook his bead.
\par \'93Well?\'94 asked Claude.
\par \'93Not a thing,\'94 said the old man.
\par I moved a little bit into the room but they didn\rquote t notice me.
\par \'93Tell me the truth, Dad,\'94 said Claude. \'93How far ahead did you see us?\'94
\par Old Mensor Williams lowered his head and sighed. \'93All right, son,\'94 he said. \'93
You deserve the truth. I saw you meet Miss Carlysle at the Tavern and not another thing. We had to trace her by old-fashioned methods and compare your gene lines like I said. The rest is truth. You know I wouldn\rquote t lie to you.\'94
\par I cleared my throat and they both looked at me.
\par Claude jumped out of his chair and faced me. \'93We can get an annulment,\'94 he said. \'93No one has the right to play with other peoples\rquote  lives like that.\'94
\par He looked so sweet and little-boy-like standing there. I knew suddenly I didn\rquote t want an annulment I said, \'93The younger generation has to accept its responsibilities sometime.\'94
\par Mensor Williams got an eager look in his eyes. I turned to the old man, said, \'93Was that seventy percent figure correct?\'94
\par \'93Absolutely correct, my dear,\'94 he said. \'93We\rquote ve checked every marriageable female he\rquote s met because he carries my family\rquote s dominant line. Your combination was the best. Far higher than we\rquote d hoped for.\'94
\par \'93Is there anything else you can tell us about our future?\'94 I asked.
\par He shook his head. \'93It\rquote s all cloudy,\'94 he said. \'93You\rquote re on your own.\'94
\par I got that creepy feeling again and looked up at my husband. Little laugh wrinkles creased at the corners of Claude\rquote s eyes and he smiled. Then another thought struck me. If we were on our own, that meant we were shaping our own future. It wasn
\rquote t fixed. And no nosey prescient could come prying in on us, either. A woman kind of likes that idea. Especially on her wedding night.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\qc \li595\ri595\sb1440\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \b\fs48\lang1049\langfe1049\kerning36\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
{\*\bkmkstart _Rat_Race}{\*\bkmkend _Rat_Race}Rat Race
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
In the nine years it took Welby Lewis to become chief of criminal investigation for Sheri
ff John Czernak, he came to look on police work as something like solving jigsaw puzzles. It was a routine of putting pieces together into a recognizable picture. He was not prepared to have his cynical police-peopled world transformed into a situation ou
t of H. G. Wells or Charles Fort.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 When Lewis said \'93alien\'94
 he meant non-American, not extraterrestrial. Oh, he knew a BEM was a bug-eyed monster; he read some science fiction. But that was just the point\emdash such situations were }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 fiction,}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  not to be encountered in police routine. And certainly unexpected at a mortuary. The Johnson-Tule Mortuary, to be exact.
\par Lewis checked in at his desk in the sheriff\rquote s office at five minutes to eight of a Tuesday morning. He was a man of low forehead, thin pinched-in Welsh face, b
lack hair. His eyes were like two pieces of roving green jade glinting beneath bushy brows.
\par The office, a room of high ceilings and stained plaster walls was in a first floor corner of the County Building at Banbury. Beneath one tall window of the room was
 a cast-iron radiator. Beside the window hung a calendar picture of a girl wearing only a string of pearls.
\par There were two desks facing each other across an aisle which led from the hall door to the radiator. The desk on the left belonged to Joe Welch, the
 night man. Lewis occupied the one on the right, a cigarette-scarred vintage piece which had stood in this room more than thirty years.
\par Lewis stopped at the front of his desk, leafed through the papers in the }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Incoming}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  basket, looked up as Sheriff Czernak e
ntered. The sheriff, a fat man with wide Slavic features and a complexion like bread crust, grunted as he eased himself into the chair under the calendar. He pushed a brown felt hat to the back of his head, exposing a bald dome.
\par Lewis said, \'93Hi, John. How\rquote s the wife?\'94 He dropped the papers back into the basket.
\par \'93Her sciatica\rquote s better this week,\'94 said the sheriff. \'93I came in to tell you to skip that burglary report in the basket. A city prowler picked up two punks with the stuff early this morning. We\rquote re sending \rquote 
em over to juvenile court.\'94
\par \'93They\rquote ll never learn,\'94 said Lewis.
\par \'93Got one little chore for you,\'94 said the sheriff. \'93Otherwise everything\rquote s quiet. Maybe we\rquote ll get a chance to catch up on our paper work.\'94 He hoisted himself out of the chair. \'93Doc Bellarm
ine did the autopsy on that Cerino woman, but he left a bottle of stomach washings at the Johnson-Tule Mortuary. Could you pick up the bottle and run it out to the county hospital?\'94
\par \'93Sure,\'94 said Lewis. \'93But I\rquote ll bet her death was natural causes. She was a known alcoholic. All those bottles in her shack.\'94
\par \'93Prob\rquote ly,\'94 said the sheriff. He stopped in front of Lewis\rquote  desk, glanced up at the calendar art. \'93Some dish.\'94
\par Lewis grinned. \'93When I find a gal like that I\rquote m going to get married,\'94 he said.
\par \'93You do that,\'94 said the sheriff. He ambled out of the office.
\par It was almost 8:30 when Lewis cruised past the mortuary in his county car and failed to find a parking place in the block. At the next corner, Cove Street, he turned right and went up the alley, parking on the concrete apron to the mortuary garage.
\par A southwest wind which had been threatening storm all night kicked up a damp gust as he stepped from the car. Lewis glanced up at the gray sky, but left his raincoat over the back of the seat. He went down the narrow 
walk beside the garage, found the back door of the mortuary ajar. Inside was a hallway and a row of three metal tanks, the tall kind welders use for oxygen and acetylene gas. Lewis glanced at them, wondered what a mortuary did with that type of equipment,
 shrugged the question aside. At the other end of the hall the door opened into a carpeted foyer which smelled of musky flowers. A door at the left bore a brass plate labeled OFFICE. Lewis crossed the foyer, entered the room.
\par Behind a glass-topped desk in the corner sat a tall blond individual type with clear Nordic features. An oak frame on the wall behind him held a colored photograph of Mount Lassen labeled PEACE on an embossed nameplate. An official burial form\emdash 
partly filled in\emdash was on the desk in front of the man. The left corner of the desk held a brass cup in which sat a metal ball. The ball emitted a hissing noise as Lewis approached and he breathed in the heavy floral scent of the foyer.
\par The man behind the desk got to his feet, put a pen across the burial form. Lewis recognized him\emdash Johnson, half owner of the mortuary.
\par \'93May I help you?\'94 asked the mortician. Lewis explained his errand.
\par Johnson brought a small bottle from a desk drawer, passed it across to Lewis, then looked at the deputy with a puzzled frown. \'93How\rquote d you get in?\'94 asked the mortician. \'93I didn\rquote t hear the front door chimes.\'94
\par The deputy shoved the bottle into a side pocket of his coat. \'93I parked in the alley and came in the back way,\'94 he said. \'93The street out front is full of Odd Fellows cars.\'94
\par \'93Odd Fellows?\'94 Johnson came around the desk.
\par \'93Paper said they were having some kind of rummage sale today,\'94 said Lewis. He ducked his head to look under the shade on the front window. \'93I guess those are Odd Fellows cars. That\rquote s the hall across the street.\'94
\par An ornamental shrub on the mortuary front lawn bent before the wind and a spattering of rain drummed against the window. Lewis straightened. \'93Left my raincoat in the car,\'94 he said. \'93I\rquote ll just duck out the way I came.\'94
\par Johnson moved to his office door. \'93Two of our attendants are due back now on a call,\'94 he said. \'93They\emdash \'94
\par \'93I\rquote ve seen a stiff before,\'94 said Lewis. He stepped past Johnson, headed for the door to the rear hall.
\par Johnson\rquote s hand caught the deputy\rquote s shoulder. \'93I must insist you go out the front,\'94 said the mortician.
\par Lewis stopped, his mind setting up a battery of questions. \'93It\rquote s raining out,\'94 he said. \'93I\rquote ll get all wet.\'94
\par \'93I\rquote m sorry,\'94 said Johnson.
\par Another man might have shrugged and complied with Johnson\rquote s request, but Welby Lewis was the son of the late Proctor Lewis, who had been three times president of the Banbury County Sherlock Holmes Round Table. Welby had cut his teeth on }{
\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 logical deduction}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  and the logic of this situation escaped him. He reviewed his memory of the hallway. Empty except for those tanks near the back door.

\par \'93What do you keep in those metal tanks?\'94 he asked.
\par The mortician\rquote s hand tightened on his shoulder and Lewis felt himself turned toward the front door. \'93Just embalming fluid,\'94 said Johnson. \'93That\rquote s the way it\rquote s delivered.\'94
\par \'93Oh.\'94 Lewis looked up at Johnson\rquote 
s tightly drawn features, pulled away from the restraining hand and went out the front door. Rain was driving down and he ran around the side of the mortuary to his car, jumping in, slammed the door and sat down to wait. At 9:28
 A.M. by his wrist watch an assistant mortician came out, opened the garage doors. Lewis leaned across the front seat, rolled down his right window.
\par \'93You\rquote ll have to move your car,\'94 said the assistant. \'93We\rquote re going out on a call.\'94
\par \'93When are the other fellows coming back?\'94 asked Lewis.
\par The mortician stopped halfway inside the garage. \'93What other fellows?\'94 he asked.
\par \'93The ones who went out on that call this morning.\'94
\par \'93Must be some other mortuary,\'94 said the assistant. \'93This is our first call today.\'94
\par Thanks,\'94 said Lewis. He rolled up his window, started the car and drove to the county hospital. The battery of unanswered questions churned in his mind. Foremost was\emdash }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
Why did Johnson lie to keep me from going out the back way?}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par At the hospital he delivered the bottle to the pathology lab, found a pay booth and called the Banbury Mortuary. An attendant answered and Lewis said, \'93I want to settle a bet. Could you tell me how embalming fluid is delivered to mortuaries?\'94
\par \'93We buy it by the case in concentrated form,\'94 said the mortician. \'93
Twenty-four glass bottles to the case, sixteen ounces to the bottle. It contains red or orange dye to give a lifelike appearance. Our particular brand smells somewhat like strawberry soda. There is nothing offensive about it. We guarantee that 
the lifelike\emdash \'94
\par \'93I just wanted to know how it came,\'94 said Lewis. \'93You\rquote re sure it\rquote s never delivered in metal tanks?\'94
\par \'93Good heavens, no!\'94 said the man. \'93It\rquote d corrode them!\'94
\par \'93Thanks,\'94 said Lewis and hung up softly. In his mind was the Holmesian observation: }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 If a man lies about an apparently inconsequential thing, then that thing is not inconsequential.}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par He stepped out of the booth and bumped into Dr. Bellarmine, the autopsy surgeon. The doctor was a tall, knobby character with gray hair, sun-lamp tan and blue eyes as cutting as two scalpels.
\par \'93Oh, there you are, Lewis,\'94 he said. \'93They told me you were down this way. We found enough alcohol in that Cerino woman to kill three people. We\rquote ll check the stomach washings, too, but I doubt they\rquote ll add anything.\'94
\par \'93Cerino woman?\'94 asked Lewis.
\par \'93The old alcoholic you found in that shack by the roundhouse,\'94 said Bellarmine. \'93You losing your memory?\'94
\par \'93Oh\'85 oh, certainly,\'94 said Lewis. \'93I was just thinking of something else. Thanks, Doc.\'94 He brushed past the surgeon. \'93Gotta go now,\'94 he muttered.
\par Back at his office Lewis sat on a corner of his desk, pulled the telephone to him and dialed the Johnson-Tule Mortuary. An unfamiliar masculine voice answered. Lewis said, \'93Do you do cremations at your mortuary?\'94
\par \'93Not at our mortuary,\'94 said the masculine voice, \'93but we have an arrangement with Rose Lawn Memorial Crematorium. Would you care to stop by and discuss your problem?\'94
\par \'93Not right now, thank you,\'94 said Lewis, and replaced the phone on its hook. He checked off another question in his mind\emdash the possibility that the tanks held gas for a crematorium. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
What the devil\rquote s in those tanks?}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  he asked himself. \'93Somebody die?\'94 The voice came from the doorway, breaking into Lewis\rquote  reverie. The deputy turned, saw Sheriff Czernak.
\par \'93No,\'94 said Lewis. \'93I\rquote ve just got a puzzle.\'94 He went around the desk to his chair, sat down.
\par \'93Doc Bellarmine say anything about the Cerino dame?\'94 asked the sheriff. He came into the room, eased himself into the chair beneath the calendar art.
\par \'93Alcoholism,\'94 said Lewis. \'93Like I said.\'94 He leaned back in his chair, put his feet on the desk and stared at a stained spot on the ceiling.
\par \'93What\rquote s niggling you?\'94 asked the sheriff. \'93You look like a guy trying to solve a conundrum.\'94
\par \'93I am,\'94 said Lewis and told him about the incident at the mortuary.
\par Czernak took off his hat, scratched his bald head. \'93It don\rquote t sound like much to me, Welby. In all probability there\rquote s a very simple explanation.\'94
\par \'93I don\rquote t think so,\'94 said Lewis.
\par \'93Why not?\'94
\par Lewis shook his head. \'93I don\rquote t know. I just don\rquote t think so. Something about that mortuary doesn\rquote t ring true.\'94
\par \'93What you think\rquote s in them tanks?\'94 asked the sheriff.
\par \'93I don\rquote t know,\'94 said Lewis.
\par The sheriff seated his hat firmly on his head. \'93Anybody else I\rquote d tell \rquote em forget it,\'94 he said. \'93But you\emdash I dunno. I seen you pull too many rabbits out of the hat. Sometimes I think you\rquote re a freak an\rquote 
 see inside people.\'94
\par \'93I am a freak,\'94 said Lewis. He dropped his feet to the floor, pulled a sketch pad to him and began doodling.
\par \'93Yeah, I can see you got six heads,\'94 said the sheriff.
\par \'93No, really,\'94 said Lewis. \'93My heart\rquote s on the right side of my chest.\'94
\par \'93I hadn\rquote t noticed,\'94 said the sheriff. \'93But now, you point it out to me\emdash \'94
\par \'93Freak,\'94 said Lewis. \'93That\rquote s what I felt looking at that mortician. Like he was some kind of a creepy freak.\'94
\par He pushed the scratch pad away from him. It bore a square broken into tiny segments by zigzag lines. Like a jigsaw puzzle.
\par \'93Was he a freak?\'94
\par Lewis shook his head. \'93Not that I could see.\'94
\par Czernak pushed himself out of his chair. \'93Tell you what,\'94 he said. \'93It\rquote s quiet today. Why\rquote ncha nose around a little?\'94
\par \'93Who can I have to help me?\'94 asked Lewis.
\par \'93Barney Keeler\rquote ll be back in about a half hour,\'94 said Czernak. \'93He\rquote s deliverin\rquote  a subpoena for Judge Gordon.\'94
\par \'93O.K.,\'94 said Lewis. \'93When he gets back tell him to go ov
er to the Odd Fellows Hall and go in the back way without attracting too much attention. I want him to go up to that tower room and keep watch on the front of the mortuary, note down everybody who enters or leaves and watch for those tanks. If the tanks g
o out, he\rquote s to tail the carrier and find out where they go.\'94
\par \'93What\rquote re you gonna do?\'94 asked the sheriff.
\par \'93Find a place where I can keep my eye on the back entrance. I\rquote ll call in when I get set.\'94 Lewis hooked a thumb toward the desk across from his. \'93When Joe Welch comes on, send him over to spell me.\'94
\par \'93Right,\'94 said Czernak. \'93I still think maybe you\rquote re coon-doggin\rquote  it up an empty tree.\'94
\par \'93Maybe I am,\'94 said Lewis. \'93But something shady about a mortuary gives my imagination the jumps. I keep thinking of how easy it could be for a mortician to get rid of an inconvenient corpse.\'94
\par \'93Stuff it in one of them tanks, maybe?\'94 asked the sheriff.
\par \'93No. They weren\rquote t big enough.\'94 Lewis shook his head. \'93I just don\rquote t like the idea of the guy lying to me.\'94
\par It was shortly after 10:30 A.M. when Lewis found what he needed\emdash a doctor\rquote 
s office in the rear of a building across the alley and two doors up from the mortuary garage. The doctor had three examining rooms on the third floor, the rear room looking down on the mortuary back yard. Le
wis swore the doctor and his nurse to secrecy, set himself up in the back room with a pair of field glasses.
\par At noon he sent the nurse out for a hamburger and glass of milk for his lunch, had her watch the mortuary yard while he called his office and told the day radio operator where he was.
\par The doctor came into the back room at five o\rquote clock, gave Lewis an extra set of keys for the office, asked him to be certain the door was locked when he left. Again Lewis warned the doctor against saying anything about t
he watch on the mortuary, stared the man down when it appeared he was about to ask questions. The doctor turned, left the room. Presently, a door closed solidly. The office was silent
\par At about 7:30 it became too dark to distinguish clearly anything that mi
ght happen in the mortuary back yard. Lewis considered moving to a position in the alley, but two floodlights above the yard suddenly flashed on and the amber glow of a night light came from the window in the back door.
\par Joe Welch pounded on the door of the doctor\rquote 
s office at 8:20. Lewis admitted him, hurried back to the window with Welch following. The other deputy was a tall, nervous chain-smoker with a perpetual squint, a voice like a bassoon. He moved to a position beside Lewis at the window, said, \'93What
\rquote s doing? Sheriff John said something about some acetylene tanks.\'94
\par \'93It may be nothing at all,\'94 said Lewis. \'93But I\rquote ve a feeling we\rquote re onto something big.\'94 In a few short sentences he explained about his encounter with the mortician that morning.
\par \'93Don\rquote t sound exciting to me,\'94 said Welch. \'93What you expecting to find in those tanks?\'94
\par \'93I wish I knew,\'94 said Lewis.
\par Welch went into the corner of the darkened room, lighted a cigarette, returned. \'93Why don\rquote t you just ask this Johnson?\'94
\par \'93That\rquote s the point,\'94 said Lewis. \'93I did ask him and he lied to me. That\rquote s why I\rquote m suspicious. I\rquote ve been hoping they\rquote d take those tanks out and we could trail them to wherever they go. Get our answer that way.\'94

\par \'93Why\rquote re you so sure it\rquote s the tanks he didn\rquote t want you to see?\'94 asked Welch.
\par \'93That was a funny hallway,\'94 said Lewis. \'93Door at each end, none along the sides. Only things in it were those tanks.\'94
\par \'93Well, those tanks might already be gone,\'94 said Welch. \'93You didn\rquote t get on this end until about 10:30 you said and Keeler wasn\rquote t on the front until about eleven. They could\rquote ve been taken out then if they\rquote 
re so all-fired important.\'94
\par \'93I\rquote ve had the same thought,\'94 said Lewis. \'93But I don\rquote t think they have. I\rquote m going out to grab a bite to eat now, then I\rquote m going down in the alley for a closer look.\'94
\par \'93You won\rquote t get very close with all them lights on the yard,\'94 said Welch.
\par Lewis pointed to the garage. \'93If you look close you can see a space along the other side; in the shadow there. The light\rquote s on in the back hall. Ill try to get close enough for a look through the window in that rear door. They\rquote 
re tall tanks. I should be able to see them.\'94
\par \'93And if they\rquote ve been moved some place else in the building?\'94 asked Welch.
\par \'93Then I\rquote ll have to go in and brace Johnson for a showdown,\'94 said Lewis. \'93Maybe I should\rquote ve done that in the first place, but this is a screwy situation. I just don\rquote t like a mystery in a mortuary.\'94
\par \'93Sounds like the title of a detective story,\'94 said Welch. \'93\lquote Mystery in a Mortuary.\rquote \'94
\par Welby sniffed. \'93There\rquote s already death inside there,\'94 he said. \'93This could be something mighty unpleasant.\'94
\par Welch lighted a new cigarette from the coal of the one he had been smoking, stubbed out the discard in a dish Lewis had been using for an ash tray. \'93You may be right,\'94 said Welch. \'93The only thing impresses me about th
is shebang, Welby, is like Sheriff John said\emdash I\rquote ve seen you pull too many rabbits out of the hat.\'94
\par \'93That\rquote s what he told you?\'94 asked Lewis.
\par \'93Yeah, but he thinks maybe you\rquote re gonna pull a blank this time.\'94 Welch stared down at the mortuary. \'93If you go inside, do you want me to round up a few of my men and smother the place if you don\rquote t come out by some set time?\'94

\par \'93I don\rquote t think that\rquote ll be necessary,\'94 said Lewis. \'93Don\rquote t take any action unless you see something suspicious.\'94
\par Welch nodded his head. \'93O.K.,\'94 he said. He looked at the glowing tip of his cigarette, glanced down at the yard they were watching. \'93Mortuaries give me the creeps anyway,\'94 he said.
\par }{\f407\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Lewis bolted a hot beef sandwich at a caf\'e9 two blocks from the mortuary, returned along a back street. It was col}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
d and wet in the alley. A perverse wind kept tangling the skirts of his raincoat. He hugged the shadows near the mortuary garage, found the row of boards which had been nailed across the area he was going to use. Lewis clambered over the boards, dropped t
o
 soft earth which was out of the wind but under a steady dripping from unguttered eaves. He moved quietly to the end of the shadow area and, as he had expected, could see inside the window on the rear door of the mortuary. The tanks were not visible. Lewi
s cursed under his breath, shrugged, stepped out of the shadows and crossed the lighted back yard. The door was locked, but he could see through the window that the hallway was empty. He went around to the front door, rang the night bell.
\par A man in a rumpled black suit which looked as though he had slept in it answered the door. Lewis brushed past him into the warm flower smell of the foyer. \'93Is Johnson here?\'94 he asked.
\par \'93Mr. Johnson is asleep,\'94 said the man. \'93May I be of service?\'94
\par \'93Ask Mr. Johnson to come down, please,\'94 said Lewis. \'93This is official business.\'94 He showed his badge.
\par \'93Of course,\'94 said the man. \'93If you\rquote ll go into the office there and have a seat, I\rquote ll tell Mr. Johnson you\rquote re here. He sleeps in the quarters upstairs.\'94
\par \'93Thanks,\'94 said Lewis. He went 
into the office, looked at the colored photograph of Mount Lassen until the night attendant had disappeared up the stairs at the other end of the foyer. Then Lewis came out of the office, went to the doorway leading into the hall. The door was locked. He 
tried forcing it, but it wouldn\rquote 
t budge. He moved to the hinge side, found a thin crack which gave a view of the other end of the hall. What he saw made him draw in a quick breath. The three metal tanks were right where he had expected them to be. He went b
ack to the office, found a directory and looked up the number of the doctor\rquote s office where Welch was waiting, dialed the number. After a long wait Welch\rquote s voice came on the line, tones guarded. \'93Yes?\'94
\par \'93This is Welby,\'94 said Lewis. \'93Anything come in the back?\'94
\par \'93No,\'94 said Welch. \'93You all right?\'94
\par \'93I\rquote m beginning to wonder,\'94 said Lewis. \'93Keep your eyes peeled.\'94 He hung up, turned to find Johnson\rquote s tall figure filling the office doorway.
\par \'93Mr. Lewis,\'94 said Johnson. \'93Is something wrong?\'94 He came into the office.
\par \'93I want to have a look at those metal tanks,\'94 said Lewis.
\par Johnson stopped. \'93What metal tanks?\'94
\par \'93The ones in your back hall,\'94 said Lewis.
\par \'93Oh, the embalming fluid,\'94 said Johnson. \'93What\rquote s the interest in embalming fluid?\'94
\par \'93Let\rquote s just have a look at it,\'94 said Lewis.
\par \'93Do you have a warrant?\'94 asked Johnson.
\par Lewis\rquote  chin jerked up and he stared at the man. \'93I wouldn\rquote t have a bit of trouble getting one,\'94 he said.
\par \'93On what grounds?\'94
\par \'93I could think of something that\rquote d stick,\'94 said Lewis. \'93Are we going to do this the easy way or the hard way?\'94
\par Johnson shrugged. \'93As you wish.\'94 He led the way out of the office, unlocked the hall door, preceded Lewis down the hallway to the three tanks.
\par \'93I thought embalming fluid came in sixteen-ounce glass bottles,\'94 said Lewis.
\par \'93This is something new,\'94 said Johnson. \'93These tanks have glass inner liners. The fluid is kept under pressure.\'94 He turned a valve and an acrid spray emerged from a fitting at the top.
\par Lewis took a shot in the dark, said, \'93That doesn\rquote t smell like embalming fluid.\'94
\par Johnson said, \'93It\rquote s a new type. We add the masking perfumes later.\'94
\par \'93You just get these filled?\'94 asked Lewis.
\par \'93No, these were delivered last week,\'94 said Johnson. \'93We\rquote ve left them here because we don\rquote t have a better place to store them.\'94 He smiled at Lewis, but the eyes remained cold, watchful. \'93Why this interest?\'94
\par \'93Call it professional curiosity,\'94 said Lewis. He went to the rear door, unlatched it and locked the latch in the open position, stepped outside, closed the door. He could see the tanks plainly through the window. He came back into the hallway.

\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 He\rquote s still lying to me,}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  thought Lewis. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 But it\rquote s all so very plausible.}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  He said, \'93I\rquote m going to give your place a thorough search.\'94
\par \'93But why?\'94 protested Johnson.
\par \'93For no good reason at all,\'94 said Lewis. \'93If you want, I\rquote ll go out and get a warrant.\'94
 He started to brush past Johnson, was stopped by a strong hand on his shoulder, something hard pressing into his side. He looked down, saw a flat automatic menacing him.
\par \'93I regret this,\'94 said Johnson. \'93Believe me, I do.\'94
\par \'93You\rquote re going to regret it more,\'94 said Lewis. \'93I have your place watched front and back and the office knows where I am.\'94
\par For the first time he saw a look of indecision on Johnson\rquote s face. \'93You\rquote re lying,\'94 said the mortician.
\par \'93Come here,\'94 said Lewis. He stepped to the back door, looked up to the black window where Welch stood. The glow of the deputy\rquote s cigarette was plainly visible, an orange wash against the blackness. Johnson saw it. \'93Now let\rquote 
s go check the front,\'94 said Lewis.
\par \'93No need,\'94 said Johnson. \'93I thought you were playing a lone hand.\'94 He paused. \'93You came in the back yard again and had a look in the window, didn\rquote t you?\'94
\par \'93What do you think?\'94 asked Lewis.
\par \'93I should\rquote ve anticipated that,\'94 said Johnson. \'93Perhaps I was too anxious to have things appear just as they were. You startled me coming in here at night like this.\'94
\par \'93You saw me come in the front?\'94 asked Lewis.
\par \'93Let us say that I was aware you were downstairs before the attendant told me,\'94 said Johnson. He gestured with his gun. \'93Let\rquote s go back to the office.\'94
\par Lewis led the way down the hall. At the foyer door he glanced back.
\par \'93Turn around!\'94 barked Johnson.
\par But the one glance had been enough. The tanks were gone.
\par \'93What was that humming sound?\'94 asked Lewis.
\par \'93Just keep moving,\'94 said Johnson.
\par In the front office, the mortician motioned Lewis to a chair. \'93What were you looking for?\'94 asked Johnson. He slid into the chair behind his desk, rested his gun hand on the desk top.
\par \'93I found what I was looking for,\'94 said Lewis.
\par \'93And that is?\'94
\par \'93Evidence to confirm my belief that this place should be taken apart brick by brick.\'94
\par Johnson smiled, hooked the telephone to him with his left hand, took off the receiver and rested it on the desk. \'93What\rquote s your office number?\'94
\par Lewis told him.
\par Johnson dialed, picked up the phone, said, \'93Hello, this is Lewis.\'94
\par Lewis came half out of the chair. His own voice was issuing from Johnson\rquote s mouth. The gun in the mortician\rquote s hand waved him back to the chair.
\par \'93You got the dope on what I\rquote m doing?\'94 asked Johnson. He waited. \'93No. Nothing important. I\rquote m just looking.\'94 Again he paused. \'93I\rquote ll tell you if I find anything,\'94 he said. He replaced the phone in its cradle.
\par \'93Well?\'94 said Lewis.
\par Johnson\rquote s lips thinned. \'93This is incredible,\'94 he said. \'93A mere human\emdash \'94 He broke off, stared at Lewis, said, \'93My mistake was in telling you a plausible lie after that door was left open. I should have\emdash \'94 He shrugged.

\par \'93You couldn\rquote t hope to fool us forever,\'94 said Lewis.
\par \'93I suppose not,\'94 said Johnson, \'93but reasoning tells me that there is still a chance.\'94 The gun suddenly came up, its muzzle pointing at Lewis. \'93It\rquote s a chance I have to take,\'94
 said the mortician. The gun belched flame and Lewis was slammed back in his chair. Through a dimming haze, he saw Johnson put the gun to his own head, pull the trigger, slump across the 
desk. Then the haze around Lewis thickened, became the black nothing of unconsciousness.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
From a somewhere he could not identify Lewis became aware of himself. He was running through a black cave, chased by a monster with blazing eyes and arms like an octopus. The monster kept shouting, \'93A mere human! A mere human! A mere human!\'94
 with a voice that echoed as though projected into a rain barrel. Then, above the voice of the monster, Lewis heard water dripping in a quick even cadence. At the same time he saw th
e mouth of the cave, a round bright area. The bright area grew larger, larger, became the white wall of a hospital room and a window with sunshine outside. Lewis turned his head, saw a metal tank like the ones in the mortuary.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 A voice said, \'93That brought h
im around.\'94
\par Vertigo swept over Lewis and for a moment he fought it. A white clad figure swam into his field of vision, resolved itself into a county hospital intern whom Lewis recognized. The intern held a black oxygen mask.
\par The sound of the dripping water was louder now and then he realized that it was a wrist watch. He turned toward the sound, saw Sheriff Czernak straighten from a position close to his head. Czernak\rquote s Slavic face broke into a grin. \'93
Boy, you gave us a scare,\'94 he said.
\par Lewis swallowed, found his voice. \'93What\emdash \'94
\par \'93You know, you are lucky you\rquote re a freak,\'94 said Czernak. \'93Your heart being on the right side\rquote s the only thing saved you. That and the fact that Joe heard the shots.\'94
\par The intern came around beside the sheriff. \'93The bullet nicked an edge of your lung and took a little piece out of a rib at the back,\'94 said the intern. \'93You must\rquote ve been born lucky.\'94
\par \'93Johnson?\'94 said Lewis.
\par \'93Deader\rquote n a mackerel,\'94 said Czernak. \'93You feel strong enough to tell us what happened? Joe\rquote s story don\rquote t make sense. What\rquote s with these tanks of embalming fluid?\'94
\par Lewis thought about his encounter with the mortician. Nothing about it made sense. He said, \'93Embalming fluid comes in sixteen-ounce bottles.\'94
\par \'93We got those three tanks from the hallway,\'94 said Czernak, \'93but I don\rquote t know what we\rquote re doing with them.\'94
\par \'93From the hall?\'94 Lewis remembered his last look at the empty hall before Johnson had ordered him to turn around. He tried to push himself up, felt pain knife through his chest. The intern pushed him gently back to the pillow. \'93
Here now, none of that,\'94 he said. \'93You just stay flat on your back.\'94
\par \'93What was in the tanks?\'94 whispered Lewis.
\par \'93The lab here says it\rquote s embalming fluid,\'94 said the sheriff, \'93What\rquote s so special about it?\'94
\par Lewis remembered the acrid odor of the spray Johnson had released from the tank valve. \'93Does the lab still have some of that fluid?\'94 he asked. \'93I\rquote d like to smell it.\'94
\par \'93I\rquote ll get it,\'94 said the intern. \'93Don\rquote t let him sit up. It could start a hemorrhage.\'94 He went out the door.
\par \'93Where were the tanks when you found them?\'94 asked Lewis.
\par \'93Down by the back door,\'94 said Czernak. \'93Where you said they were. Why?\'94
\par \'93I don\rquote t really know yet,\'94 said Lewis. \'93But I\rquote ve something I wish you\rquote d do. Take a\emdash \'94
\par The door opened and the intern entered, a test tube in his hand. \'93This is the stuff,\'94 he said. He passed the tube under Lewis\rquote  nose. It gave off a musklike sweet aroma. It was not what he had smelled at the tanks. }{
\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 That explains why the tanks disappeared,}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  he thought. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
Somebody switched them. But what was in the others?}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  He looked up at the intern, said, \'93Thanks.\'94
\par \'93You were sayin\rquote  something,\'94 said the sheriff.
\par \'93Yes,\'94 said Lewis. \'93Take a crew over to that mortuary, John, and rip out the wall behind where you found those tanks and take up the floor under that spot.\'94
\par \'93What\rquote re we supposed to find?\'94 asked Czernak.
\par \'93Damned if I know,\'94 said Lewis, \'93but it sure should be interesting. Those tanks kept disappearing and reappearing every time I turned my back. I want to know why.\'94
\par \'93Look, Welby, we\rquote ve got to have something solid to go on,\'94 said the sheriff. \'93People are running around that mortuary like crazy, saying it\rquote s bad for business an\rquote  what all.\'94
\par \'93I\rquote d say this was good for business,\'94 said Lewis, a brief smile forming on his lips. His face sobered. \'93Don\rquote t you think it\rquote s enough that somebody tried to kill one of your men and then committed suicide?\'94
\par The sheriff scratched his head. \'93I guess so, Welby. You sure you can\rquote t give me anything more\rquote n just your hunch?\'94
\par \'93You know as much about this as I do,\'94 said Lewis. \'93By the way, where\rquote s Johnson\rquote s body?\'94
\par \'93They\rquote re fixin\rquote  it up for burial,\'94 said Czernak. \'93Welby, I really should have more\rquote n just your say so. The D.A. will scream if I get too heavy handed.\'94
\par \'93You\rquote re still the sheriff,\'94 said Lewis.
\par \'93Well, can\rquote t you even tell me why Johnson killed himself?\'94
\par \'93Say he was mentally unbalanced,\'94 said Lewis. \'93And John, here\rquote s something else. Get Doc Bellarmine to do the autopsy on Johnson and tell him to go over that body with a magnifying glass.\'94
\par \'93Why?\'94
\par \'93It was something he said about mere humans,\'94 said Lewis.
\par \'93Askin\rquote  me to stick my neck out like this,\'94 said Czernak.
\par \'93Will you do it?\'94 asked Lewis.
\par \'93Sure I\rquote ll do it!\'94 exploded Czernak. \'93But I don\rquote t like it!\'94 He jammed his hat onto his head, strode out of the room.
\par The intern turned to follow.
\par Lewis said, \'93What time is it?\'94
\par The intern stopped, glanced at his wrist watch. \'93Almost five.\'94 He looked at Lewis. \'93We\rquote ve had you under sedatives since you came out of the operating room.\'94
\par \'93Five A.M. or five P.M.?\'94 asked Lewis.
\par \'93Five P.M.,\'94 said the intern.
\par \'93Was I a tough job?\'94 asked Lewis.
\par \'93It was a clean wound,\'94 said the intern. \'93You take it easy now. It\rquote s almost chow time. I\rquote ll see that you\rquote re served in the first round and then I\rquote ll have the nurse bring you a sedative. You need your rest.\'94
\par \'93How long am I going to be chained to this bed?\'94 asked Lewis.
\par \'93We\rquote ll discuss that later,\'94 said the intern. \'93You really shouldn\rquote t be talking.\'94 He turned away, went out the door.
\par Lewis turned his head away, saw that someone had left a stack of magazines on his bed stand. The top magazine had slipped down, exposing the cover. It was done in garish colors\emdash 
a bug-eyed monster chasing a scantily clad female. Lewis was reminded of his nightmare. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 A mere human\'85 A mere human\'85 A mere human.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
 The words kept turning over in his mind. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 What was it about Johnson that brought up the idea of a freak?}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  he wondered.
\par A student nurse brought in his tray, cranked up his bed and helped him eat. Presently, a nurse came in with a hypo, shot him in the arm. He drifted off to sleep with the mind full of questions still unanswered.
\par \'93He\rquote s awake now,\'94 said a female voice. Lewis heard a door open, looked up to see Czernak followed by Joe Welch. It was daylight outside, raining. The two men wore damp raincoats which they took off and draped over chairs.
\par Lewis smiled at Welch. \'93Thanks for having good ears, Joe,\'94 he said.
\par Welch grinned. \'93I opened the window when I saw you come out the back door,\'94 he said. \'93I thought maybe you was going to holler something up to me. Then when you went right back inside, I thought that was funny; so I lef
t the window partly open or I\rquote d never\rquote ve heard a thing.\'94
\par Czernak pulled a chair up beside Lewis\rquote  bed, sat down. Welch took a chair at the foot.
\par Lewis turned his head toward the sheriff. \'93Is the D. A. screaming yet?\'94
\par \'93No,\'94 said Czernak. \'93He got caught out in that rainstorm the other day and he\rquote s home with the flu. Besides, I\rquote m still sheriff of this county.\'94 He patted the bed. \'93How you feeling, boy?\'94
\par \'93I\rquote m afraid I\rquote m gonna live,\'94 said Lewis.
\par \'93You better,\'94 said Welch. \'93We got a new relief radio gal who saw your picture in the files an\rquote  says she wants to meet you. She\rquote s a wow.\'94
\par \'93Tell her to wait for me,\'94 said Lewis. He looked at the sheriff. \'93What\rquote d you find?\'94
\par \'93I don\rquote t get it, Welby,\'94 said Czernak. \'93Right behind where them tanks was there was this brick wall covered with plaster. We took away the plaster and there\rquote s all these wires, see.\'94
\par \'93What kind of wires?\'94
\par \'93That\rquote s just it, Keeler\rquote s old man is a jeweler and Keeler says this wire is silver. It\rquote s kind of a screen like, crisscrossed every which way.\'94
\par \'93What were they hooked up to?\'94
\par \'93To nothing we could find,\'94 said Czernak. He looked at Welch. \'93Ain\rquote t that right?\'94
\par \'93Nothing there but this wire,\'94 said Welch.
\par \'93What did you do with it?\'94 asked Lewis.
\par \'93Nothing,\'94 said Czernak. \'93We just left it like it was and took pictures.\'94
\par \'93Anything under the floor?\'94
\par Czernak\rquote s face brightened. \'93Boy, we sure hit the jackpot there!\'94 He bent his head and peered closely at Lewis. \'93How\rquote d you know we\rquote d find something under there?\'94
\par \'93I just knew those tanks kept appearing out of nowhere,\'94 said Lewis. \'93What was under there?\'94
\par Czernak straightened. \'93Well, a whole section of the hall floor was an elevator and down below there was this big room. It stretched from under the hall to clear under the embalming room and there was a section of the embalming ro
om floor where a bunch of tiles come up in one piece and there was a trapdoor and a stairway. Hell! It was just like one of them horror movies!\'94
\par \'93What was down there?\'94
\par \'93A buncha machinery,\'94 said Czernak.
\par \'93What kind?\'94
\par \'93I dunno.\'94 Czernak shook his head, glanced at Welch.
\par \'93Craziest stuff I ever saw,\'94 said Welch. He shrugged.
\par \'93Doc Bellarmine came down and had a look at it after the autopsy last night,\'94 said Czernak. \'93He said he\rquote d be in to see you this morning.\'94
\par \'93Did he say anything about the autopsy?\'94 asked Lewis.
\par \'93Not to me,\'94 said Czernak.
\par Welch hitched his chair closer to the foot of the bed, rested an arm on the rail. \'93He told me it was something about the autopsy made him come down to have a look at the mortuary,\'94 he said. \'93He didn\rquote t say what it was, though.\'94
\par \'93What about the mortuary staff?\'94 asked Lewis. \'93Did they say anything about the secret room?\'94
\par \'93They swear they never even knew it was there,\'94 said Czernak. \'93We took \rquote em all into custody anyway, all except Tule and his wife.\'94
\par \'93Tule?\'94
\par \'93Yeah, the other partner. His wife was a licensed mortician, too. Ain\rquote t been seen since the night you were shot. The staff says that Johnson, Tule and the wife was always locking doors around the building for no good reason at all.\'94
\par \'93What did this machinery look like?\'94
\par \'93Part of it was just an elevator for that section of floor. The other stuff was hooked up to a bunch of pipes coming down from the embalming table upstairs. There was this big\emdash \'94 Czernak stopped as the door opened.
\par Dr. Bellarmine\rquote s cynical face peered into the room. His eyes swept over the occupants, he entered, closed the door behind him. \'93The patient\rquote s feeling better, I see,\'94 he said. \'93
For a while there I thought this would be a job for me in my official capacity.\'94
\par \'93This guy\rquote ll outlive all of us,\'94 said Welch.
\par \'93He probably will at that,\'94 said the doctor. He glanced down at Lewis \'93Feel like a little conversation?\'94
\par \'93Just a minute, Doc,\'94 said Lewis. He turned to Czernak. \'93John, I have one more favor,\'94 he said. \'93Could you get one of those tanks of embalming fluid to a welding shop and have it cut open with a burner. I want to know how it\rquote 
s made inside.\'94
\par \'93No you don\rquote t,\'94 said Czernak. \'93I\rquote m not leavin\rquote  here without some kind of an explanation.\'94
\par \'93And I don\rquote t have an explanation,\'94 said Lewis. \'93All the pieces aren\rquote t together yet. I\rquote m tied to this bed when I should be out working on this thing. I\rquote 
ve ten thousand questions I want answered and no way of answering them.\'94
\par \'93Don\rquote t excite yourself,\'94 said Bellarmine.
\par \'93Yeah, Welby, take it easy,\'94 said Czernak. \'93It\rquote s just that I\rquote m about r
eady to pop with frustration. Nothing makes sense here. This guy tries to kill you for no apparent reason and then commits suicide. It seems to be because you wanted to look inside them tanks, but they\rquote re just embalming fluid. I don\rquote 
t get it.\'94
\par \'93Would you have those tanks cut open for me?\'94 asked Lewis.
\par \'93O.K., O.K.\'94 Czernak hoisted himself to his feet. Welch also arose. \'93Come on, Joe,\'94 said the sheriff. \'93We\rquote re nothin\rquote  but a couple of leg men for Sherlock here. Let\rquote s take them\emdash \'94
\par \'93John, I\rquote m sorry,\'94 said Lewis. \'93It\rquote s just that I can\rquote t\emdash \'94
\par \'93I know you can\rquote t do it yourself now,\'94 said Czernak. \'93That\rquote s why I\rquote m doing it. You\rquote re the best man I got, Welby; so I\rquote m countin\rquote  on you to put this together. Me, I gave up when I saw that machinery.\'94
 He left the room, muttering, followed by Welch, who stopped at the door, winked at Lewis.
\par Bellarmine waited until the door closed, sat down on the foot of the bed. \'93How\rquote d you get onto them?\'94 he asked.
\par Lewis ignored the question. \'93What\rquote d you find in that autopsy?\'94 he asked.
\par The surgeon frowned. \'93I thought you were nuts when the sheriff told me what you wanted,\'94 he said. \'93
Any fool could see Johnson died of a gunshot wound in the head. But I guessed you had a reason; so I did my cutting carefully and it was a lucky thing I did.\'94
\par \'93Why?\'94
\par \'93Well, this is the kind of case an autopsy surgeon sloughs off sometimes. Visible wound. Obvious cause. I could\rquote ve missed it. The guy looked to be normal.\'94
\par \'93Missed what?\'94
\par \'93His heart for one thing. It had an extra layer of muscles in the cardiac sheath. I expe
rimented with them and near dropped my knife. They work like that automatic sealing device they put in airplane fuel tanks. Puncture the heart and this muscle layer seals the hole until the heart\rquote s healed.\'94
\par \'93Damn!\'94 said Lewis.
\par \'93This guy was like that all over,\'94 said Bellarmine. \'93
For a long time doctors have looked at the human body with the wish they could redesign certain things to better specifications. Johnson looked like our wish had come true. Fewer vertebrae with better articulation. Pigment veins int
o the pupil of the eye which could only be some kind of filter to\emdash \'94
\par \'93That\rquote s it!\'94 Lewis slapped the bed with the palm of his band. \'93There was something freakish about him and I couldn\rquote t focus on it. The pupils of his eyes changed color. I can remember seeing it and\emdash \'94
\par \'93You didn\rquote t see anything,\'94 said Bellarmine. \'93
His pelvic floor was broader and distributed the weight more evenly to the legs. The feet had larger bones and more central distribution of weight over the arch. There was an interlaced membranous sup
port for the viscera. His circulatory system had sphincter valves at strategic points to control bleeding. This Johnson may have looked human on the outside, but inside he was superhuman.\'94
\par \'93What about that machinery in the mortuary basement?\'94 asked Lewis.
\par Bellarmine stood up, began to pace the floor, back and forth at the foot of the bed. Presently, he stopped, put his hands on the rail, stared at Lewis. \'93I spent half the night examining that layout,\'94 he said. \'93
It was one of the most beautifully designed and executed rigs I\rquote ve ever seen. Its major purpose was to take cadaver blood and fractionate the protein.\'94
\par \'93You mean like for making plasma and stuff like that?\'94 asked Lewis.
\par \'93Well, something like that,\'94 said Bellarmine.
\par \'93I didn\rquote t think you could use the blood of a corpse for that,\'94 said Lewis.
\par \'93We didn\rquote t either,\'94 said the surgeon. \'93The Russians have been working on it, however. Our experience has been that it breaks down too quickly. We\rquote ve tried\emdash \'94
\par \'93You mean this was a Communist setup?\'94
\par Bellarmine shook his head. \'93No such luck. This rig wasn\rquote t just foreign to the U.S.A. It was foreign to Earth. There\rquote 
s one centrifugal pump in there that spins free in an air blast. I shudder every time I think of the force it must generate. We don\rquote t have an alloy that\rquote ll come anywhere near standing up to those strains. And the Russians don\rquote 
t have it, either.\'94
\par \'93How can you be sure?\'94
\par \'93For one thing, there are several research projects that are awaiting this type of rig and the Russians have no more results on those projects than we have.\'94
\par \'93Then something was produced from cadaver blood and was stored in those tanks,\'94 said Lewis.
\par Bellarmine nodded. \'93I checked. A fitting on the tanks matched one on the machinery.\'94
\par Lewis pushed himself upright, ignoring the pain in his chest. \'93Then this means an extraterrestrial in\emdash \'94 The pain in his chest became too much and he sagged back to the pillow.
\par Dr. Bellarmine was suddenly at his side. \'93You fool!\'94 he barked. \'93You were told to take it easy.\'94 He pushed the emergency button at the head of the bed, began working on the bandages.
\par \'93What\rquote s matter?\'94 whispered Lewis.
\par \'93Hemorrhage,\'94 said Bellarmine. \'93Where\rquote s that fool nurse? Why doesn\rquote t she answer the bell?\'94 He stripped away a length of adhesive.
\par The door opened and a nurse entered, stopped as she saw the scene.
\par \'93Emergency tray,\'94 said Bellarmine. \'93Get Dr. Edwards here to assist! Bring plasma!\'94
\par Lewis heard a drum begin to pound inside his head\emdash louder, louder, louder. Then it began to fade and there was nothing.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
He awoke to a rustling sound and footsteps. Then he recognized it. The sound of a nurse\rquote s starched uniform as she moved about the room. He opened his eyes and saw by the shadows outside that it was afternoon.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 \'93So you\rquote re awake,\'94
 said the nurse.
\par Lewis turned his head toward the sound. \'93You\rquote re new,\'94 he said. \'93I don\rquote t recognize you.\'94
\par \'93Special,\'94 she said. \'93Now you just take it easy and don\rquote t try to move.\'94 She pushed the call button.
\par It seemed that almost immediately Dr. Bellarmine was in the room bending over Lewis. The surgeon felt Lewis\rquote  wrist, took a deep breath. \'93You went into shock,\'94 he said. \'93You have to remain quiet. Don\rquote t try to move around.\'94
\par His voice low and husky, Lewis said, \'93Could I ask some questions?\'94
\par \'93Yes, but only for a few minutes. You have to avoid any kind of exertion.\'94
\par \'93What\rquote d the sheriff find out about the tanks?\'94
\par Bellarmine grimaced. \'93They couldn\rquote t open them. Can\rquote t cut the metal.\'94
\par \'93That confirms it,\'94 said Lewis. \'93Think there are any other rigs like that?\'94
\par \'93There have to be,\'94 said Bellarmine. He sat down on a chaff at the head of the bed. \'93I\rquote 
ve had another look at that basement layout and took a machinist with me. He agrees. Everything about it cries out mass production. Mostly cast fittings with a minimum of machining. Simple, efficient construction.\'94
\par \'93Why? What good\rquote s the blood from human cadavers?\'94
\par \'93I\rquote ve been asking myself that same question,\'94 said Bellarmine. \'93Maybe for a nutrient solution for culture growths. Maybe for the antibodies.\'94
\par \'93Would they be any good?\'94
\par \'93That depends on how soon the blood was extracted. The time element varies with temperature, body condition, a whole barrel full of things.\'94
\par \'93But why?\'94
\par The surgeon ran a hand through his gray hair. \'93I don\rquote t like my answer to that question,\'94 he said. \'93I keep thinking of how we fractionate the blood of guinea pigs, how we recover
 vaccine from chick embryos, how we use all of our test animals.\'94
\par Lewis\rquote  eyes fell on the dresser across his room. Someone had taken the books from his night stand and put them on the dresser. He could still see the bug-eyed monster cover.
\par \'93From what I know of science fiction,\'94 said Lewis, \'93that silver grid in the hall must be some kind of matter transmitter for sending the tanks to wherever they\rquote re used. I wonder why they didn\rquote t put it downstairs with the machinery.
\'94
\par \'93Maybe it had to be above ground,\'94 said Bellarmine. \'93You figure it the same way I do.\'94
\par \'93You\rquote re a hard-headed guy, Doc,\'94 said Lewis. \'93How come you go for this bug-eyed monster theory?\'94
\par \'93It was the combination,\'94 said Bellarmine. \'93That silver grid, the design of the machinery and its purpose, the 
strange metals, the differences in Johnson. It all spells A-L-I-E-N, alien. But I could say the same holds for you, Lewis. What put you wise?\'94
\par \'93Johnson. He called me a }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 mere human.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  I got to wondering how alien a guy could be to separate himself from the human race.\'94
\par \'93It checks,\'94 said Bellarmine.
\par \'93But why guinea pigs?\'94 asked Lewis.
\par The surgeon frowned, looked at the floor, back at Lewis. \'93That rig had a secondary stage,\'94 he said. \'93It could have only one function\emdash passing live virus under some kind of bombardment\emdash X-ray or beta ray or whatever\emdash 
and depositing the mutated strain in a little spray container about as big as your fist. I know from my own research experience that some mutated virus can be deadly.\'94
\par \'93Germ warfare,\'94 whispered Lewis. \'93You sure it isn\rquote t the Russians?\'94
\par \'93I\rquote m sure. This was a perfect infecting center. Complete. Banbury would\rquote ve been decimated by now if that\rquote s what it was.\'94
\par \'93Maybe they weren\rquote t ready.\'94
\par \'93Germ warfare is ready when one infecting center is set up. No. This rig was for producing slight alterations in common germs or I miss my guess. This little spray container went into a\'85\'94
\par \'93Rack on Johnson\rquote s desk,\'94 said Lewis.
\par \'93Yeah,\'94 said Bellarmine.
\par \'93I saw it,\'94 said Lewis. \'93I thought it was one of those deodorant things.\'94 He picked a piece of lint off the covers. \'93So they\rquote re infecting us with mutated virus.\'94
\par \'93It scares me,\'94 said Bellarmine.
\par Lewis squinted his eyes, looked up at the surgeon. \'93Doc, what would you do if you found out that one of your white rats was not only intelligent but had found out what you were doing to it?\'94
\par \'93Well\emdash \'94 Bellarmine looked out the window at the gathering dusk. \'93I\rquote m no monster, Lewis. I\rquote d probably turn it loose. No\emdash \'94 He scratched his chin. \'93No, maybe I wouldn\rquote t at that. But I wouldn\rquote 
t infect it anymore. I think I\rquote d put it through some tests to find out just how smart it was. The rat would no longer be a simple test animal. Its usefulness would be in the psychological field, to tell me things about myself.\'94
\par \'93That\rquote s about the way I had it figured,\'94 said Lewis, \'93How much longer am I going to be in this bed?\'94
\par \'93Why?\'94
\par \'93I\rquote ve figured a way for the guinea pigs to tell the researchers the jig\rquote s up.\'94
\par \'93How? We don\rquote t even know their language. We\rquote ve only seen one specimen and that one\rquote s dead. We can\rquote t be sure they\rquote d react the same way we would.\'94
\par \'93Yes they would,\'94 said Lewis.
\par \'93How can you say that? They must already know we\rquote re sentient.\'94
\par \'93So\rquote s a rat sentient\emdash to a degree,\'94 said Lewis. \'93It\rquote s all in the way you look at it. Sure. Compared to us, they\rquote re vegetables. That\rquote s the way it\rquote d be with\emdash \'94
\par \'93We don\rquote t have the right to take risks with the rest of humanity,\'94 protested Bellarmine. \'93Man, one of them tried to kill you!\'94
\par \'93But everything points to that one being defective,\'94 said Lewis. \'93He made too many mistakes. That\rquote s the only reason we got wise to him.\'94
\par \'93They might dump us into the incinerator as no longer useful,\'94 said Bellarmine. \'93They\emdash \'94
\par Lewis said, \'93They\rquote d have to be pretty much pure scientists. Johnson was a field man, a lab technician, a worker. The pure scientists would follow our human pattern. I\rquote 
m sure of it. To be a pure scientist you have to be able to control yourself. That means you\rquote d understand other persons\rquote \emdash other beings\rquote \emdash problems. No, Doc. Your first answer was the best one. You\rquote 
d put your rats to psychological tests.\'94
\par Bellarmine stared at his hands. \'93What\rquote s your idea?\'94
\par \'93Take a white rat in one of those little lab cages. Infect it with some common germ, leave the infecting hypo in the cage, put the whole works\emdash rat and all\emdash in front of that silver grid. Distort\emdash \'94
\par \'93That\rquote s a crazy idea,\'94 said Bellarmine. \'93How could you tell a hypothetical something to look at your message when you don\rquote t even know the hypothetical language\emdash how to contact them in the first place.\'94
\par \'93Distort the field of that grid by touching the wires with a piece of metal,\'94 said Lewis. \'93Tie the metal to the end of a pole for safety.\'94
\par \'93I\rquote ve never heard a crazier idea,\'94 said Bellarmine.
\par \'93Get the white rat, the cage and the hypo and I\rquote ll do it myself,\'94 said Lewis.
\par Bellarmine got to his feet, moved toward the door. \'93You\rquote re not doing anything for a couple of weeks,\'94 he said. \'93You\rquote re a sick man and I\rquote ve been talking to you too long already.\'94 He opened the door, left the room.
\par Lewis stared at the ceiling. A shudder passed over his body. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Mutated virus!}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par The door opened and an orderly and nurse entered. \'93You get a little tube feeding of hot gelatin,\'94 said the nurse. She helped him eat it, then, over his protests, gave him a sedative.
\par \'93Doctor\rquote s orders,\'94 said the nurse.
\par Through a descending fog, Lewis murmured, \'93Which doctor?\'94
\par \'93Dr. Bellarmine,\'94 she said.
\par The fog came lower, darkened. He drifted into a nightmare peopled by thousands of Johnsons, all of them running around with large metal tanks asking, \'93Are you human?\'94 and collecting blood.
\par Sheriff Czernak was beside the bed when Lewis awoke. Lewis could see out the window that dawn was breaking. He turned toward the sheriff. \'93Mornin\rquote , John,\'94 he whispered. His tongue felt thick and dry.
\par \'93\rquote Bout time you woke up,\'94 said Czernak. \'93I\rquote ve been waiting here a coupla hours. Something fishy going on.\'94
\par \'93Wind my bed up, will you?\'94 asked Lewis. \'93What\rquote s happening?\'94
\par Czernak arose, moved to the foot of the bed and turned the crank.
\par \'93The big thing is that Doc Bellarmine has disappeared,\'94 he said. \'93We traced him from the lab here to the mortuary. Then he just goes }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 pffft!}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\'94
\par Lewis\rquote  eyes widened. \'93Was there a white rat cage?\'94
\par \'93There you go again!\'94 barked Czernak. \'93You tell me you don\rquote t know anything about this, but you sure know all the questions.\'94 He bent over Lewis. \'93Sure there was a rat cage! You better tell me how you knew it!\'94
\par \'93First tell }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 me}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  what happened,\'94 said Lewis.
\par Czernak straightened, frowning. \'93All right, Welby, but when I get through telling, then you better tell.\'94 He wet his lips with his tongue. \'93I\rquote m told the Doc came in here and talked to you last 
night. Then he went down to the lab and got one of them white rats with its cage. Then he went over to the mortuary. He had the cage and rat with him. Our night guard let him in. After a while, when the Doc didn\rquote 
t come out, the guard got worried and went inside. There in the back hall is the Doc\rquote s black bag. And over where this silver wire stuff was he finds\emdash \'94
\par \'93Was?\'94 Lewis barked the word.
\par \'93Yeah,\'94 said Czernak wearily. \'93That\rquote s the other thing. Sometime last night somebody ripped out all them wires and didn\rquote t leave a single trace.\'94
\par \'93What else did the guard find?\'94
\par Czernak ran a hand under his collar, stared at the opposite wall.
\par \'93Well?\'94
\par \'93Welby, look, I\emdash \'94
\par \'93What happened?\'94
\par \'93Well, the night guard\emdash it was Rasmussen\emdash called me and I went right down. Rasmussen didn\rquote t touch a thing. There was the Doc\rquote s bag, a long wood pole with a tire iron attached to it and the rat cage. The rat was gone.\'94

\par \'93Was there anything in the cage?\'94
\par Czernak suddenly leaned forward, blurted, \'93Look, Welby, about the cage. There\rquote s something screwy about it. When I first got there I swear it wasn\rquote t there. Rasmussen doesn\rquote 
t remember it either. My first idea when I got there was that the Doc\rquote d gone out the back way, but our seal was still on the door. It hadn\rquote t been opened. While I was thinkin\rquote  that one over\emdash 
I was standing about in the middle of the hall\emdash I heard this noise like a cork being pulled out of a bottle. I turned around and there was this little cage on the floor. Out of nowhere.\'94
\par \'93And it was empty?\'94
\par \'93Except for some pieces of glass that I\rquote m told belonged to a hypo.\'94
\par \'93Broken?\'94
\par \'93Smashed to pieces.\'94
\par \'93Was the cage door open?\'94
\par Czernak tipped his head to one side, looked at the far wall. \'93No, I don\rquote t believe it was.\'94
\par \'93And exactly where was this cage?\'94 Lewis\rquote  eyes burned into the sheriff\rquote s.
\par \'93Like I said, Welby. Right in front of where the wires was.\'94
\par \'93And the wires were gone?\'94
\par \'93Well\emdash \'94 Again the sheriff looked uncomfortable. \'93For just a second there when I turned around after hearing that noise\emdash for just a second there I thought I saw \rquote em.\'94
\par Lewis took a deep breath.
\par Czernak said, \'93Now come on and give, will you? Where\rquote s the Doc. You must have some idea, the way you been askin\rquote  questions.\'94
\par \'93He\rquote s taking his entrance exams,\'94 said Lewis. \'93And we\rquote d all better pray that he passes.\'94
\par }\pard\plain \s1\qc \li595\ri595\sb1440\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \b\fs48\lang1049\langfe1049\kerning36\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
{\*\bkmkstart _Gambling_Device}{\*\bkmkend _Gambling_Device}Gambling Device
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 \'93Desert Rest Hotel\emdash No Gambling\'94

\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
The blue and white sign, scraggly alkali sedge clustering around its supports, stood by itself at the edge of the lonely road.
\par Hal Remsen read it aloud, stopped his convertible at the hotel drive and glanced down at his bride of six hours. The heavy floral scent of her corsage wafted up to him. He smiled, the action bringing his thin dark features into vivid aliveness.
\par Ruth Remsen\rquote s short blond hair had been tangled by the long drive in the open car. Her disarrayed hair, backlighted now by a crimson sunset, accented a piquant doll quality in her small features.
\par \'93Well?\'94 he said.
\par \'93Hal, I don\rquote t like the looks of that place,\'94 she said. Her eyes narrowed. \'93It looks like a prison. Let\rquote s try farther on.\'94
\par She suddenly shivered, staring across her husband at the blocky structure nestled in dry sand hills to their left. The hotel\rquote s shadowed portico gaped like a trap at the end of the dark surfaced driveway.
\par Hal shrugged, grinned. It gave him the sudden look of a small boy about to admit who stole the cookies.
\par \'93I have a confession,\'94 he said. \'93Your husband, the irreplaceable trouble shooter of Fowler Electronics, Inc., is lost.\'94 He hesitated. \'93That left turn at Meridian\'85\'94
\par \'93I still don\rquote t like the looks of that place,\'94 she said. Her face sobered. \'93Darling, it\rquote s our wedding night.\'94
\par He turned away from her to look at the hotel.
\par \'93It\rquote s just the way the sunset\rquote s lighting it,\'94 he said. \'93It makes those windows look like big red eyes.\'94
\par Ruth chewed her lower lip, continued to stare at the building in the parched hills. Rays of the setting sun, reflected off mineral sands, painted red streaks across the structure, gleamed like fire on the windows and their metal frames.
\par \'93Well\'85\'94 She allowed her voice to trail off.
\par Hal put the car in gear, turned into the drive.
\par \'93It\rquote ll be dark soon,\'94 he said. \'93There\rquote s no dusk on the desert. We\rquote d better take this while we can.\'94
\par He stopped the car in the gloom of the portico.
\par An ancient bellboy with a leathery mask of a face, and wearing a green uniform, came down the two steps at their right. Yellow lobby lights pouring through the double doors behind him silhouetted his stick-like frame.
\par Without speaking, he opened the car door for Ruth.
\par Hal slid across the seat after her, nodded toward the rear. \'93Those two bags on the seat,\'94 he said. \'93We\rquote ll just be staying the night.\'94
\par He left the keys in the car.
\par The lobby held a cool stillness after the desert\rquote s heat. The tapping of their heels echoed across the tile floor. Hal was struck by the curious absence of plants, furniture and people. The quiet held an eerie, waiting quality.
\par They crossed to a marble-topped semi-circular desk at the far side. Hal pushed a call button on the desk. He heard a double click behind him, turned to see the bellboy putting down then luggage.
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 If he were a woman, they\rquote d call him a \'93crone,\'94}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  thought Hal. The word \'93warlock\'94 popped into his mind.
\par The man moved around behind the desk with a kind of slithering, shambling walk. He pushed register and pen toward Hal.
\par Ruth looked at the register, glanced at Hal.
\par Suddenly conscious of his newly married status, Hal cleared his throat.
\par \'93Do you have a suite?\'94 he asked.
\par \'93You have room 417 in the northwest corner,\'94 said the man.
\par \'93Is that all you have?\'94 asked Hal. He glanced down at Ruth, took a deep breath to overcome an abrupt feeling of disquiet. He looked back at the man across the desk.
\par \'93That\rquote s your room, sir,\'94 said the man. He touched the edge of the register.
\par \'93Oh, take it,\'94 said Ruth. \'93It\rquote s just for tonight.\'94
\par Hal shrugged, took up the pen, signed, \'93Mr. and Mrs. Harold B. Remsen, Sonoma, California\'94 with an overdone flourish.
\par The man took the pen from Hal, put it in the fold of the register. He came back around the desk, still with that peculiar shambling gait\emdash an almost mechanical motion.
\par \'93This way, please,\'94 he said, taking up the luggage.
\par They went diagonally across the lobby, into an elevator that hummed faintly as the bellboy closed the door, sent the machine upward.
\par Ruth took hold of Hal\rquote s arm, gripped it tightly. He patted her hand, feeling a tremor of skin as he touched her. He stared at the back of the bellboy\rquote s green uniform. Irregular radial wrinkles stretched downward from the neck. Hal coughed.

\par \'93We turned left on what we thought was Route 25 back there at Meridian,\'94 he said. \'93We\rquote re headed for Carson City.\'94
\par The bellboy remained silent.
\par \'93Was that a wrong turn?\'94 asked Ruth. Her voice came out high pitched, strained.
\par \'93There is no such thing as a }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 wrong}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  turn,\'94
 said the bellboy. He spoke without turning, brought the elevator to a stop, opened the door, took up their bags. \'93This way, please.\'94
\par Hal looked down at his bride. She raised her eyebrows, shrugged.
\par \'93A philosopher,\'94 he whispered.
\par The hall seemed to stretch out endlessly, like a dark cave with a barred window at the end. Through the window they could see night sweeping suddenly 
over the desert, bright stars clustering along the horizon. A silvery glow shimmered from the corners of the ceiling, illuminating the soft maroon carpet underfoot.
\par At the end of the hall, the bellboy opened a door, reached in, turned on a light. He stepped aside, waited for Hal and Ruth to enter.
\par Hal paused in the yellow light of the threshold, smiled down at his bride. He made a lifting motion with his hands. She blushed, shook her head, stepped firmly into the room. He chuckled, followed her into the room.
\par It was a low-ceilinged oblong space. A double bed stood at the far end, a metal dresser to their right flanked by two partly open doors. Through one door they could see the tile gleam of a bathroom. The other door showed the empty darkness of a closet. 
The room gave an impression of cell-like austerity. Windows by the bed looked out on the purple of the desert night.
\par Ruth went to the dresser mirror, began unpinning her corsage. The bellboy put their bags on a stand near the bed. Hal could see Ruth watching the man in the mirror.
\par \'93What did you mean \lquote no such thing as a }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 wrong}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  turn\rquote ?\'94 she asked.
\par The bellboy straightened. His green uniform settled into a new pattern of wrinkles. \'93All roads lead somewhere,\'94 he said. He turned, headed for the door.
\par Hal brought his hand from his pocket with a tip. The man ignored him, marched out, closing the door behind him.
\par \'93Well, I\rquote ll be\'85\'94
\par \'93Hal!\'94 Ruth put a hand to her mouth, staring at the door.
\par He jerked around, feeling the panic in her voice.
\par \'93There\rquote s no door handle on the inside!\'94 she said.
\par He looked at the blank inner surface of the door. \'93Probably a hidden button or an electric eye,\'94 he said. He went to the door, felt its surface, explored the wall on both sides.
\par Ruth came up behind him, clutched his arm. He could feel her trembling.
\par \'93Hal, I\rquote m deathly afraid,\'94 she said. \'93Let\rquote s get out of here and\'85\'94
\par From somewhere, a deep rumbling voice interrupted her. \'93Please do not be alarmed.\'94
\par Hal straightened, turned, trying to locate the source of the voice. He could feel Ruth\rquote s fingernails biting into his arm.
\par \'93You are now residents of the Desert Rest Hotel,\'94 said the voice. \'93Your stay need not be unpleasant as long as you observe our one rule: No gambling. You will not be permitted to gamble in any way. All gambling devices will be re
moved if you attempt to disobey.\'94
\par \'93I want to leave here,\'94 quavered Ruth. The nightmare quality of the scene struck Hal. He seriously considered for a brief second that he might be dreaming. But there was too much reality here: Ruth trembling beside him, th
e solid door, the grey wall. \'93Some crackpot fanatic,\'94 he muttered.
\par \'93You may decide to leave,\'94 said the voice, \'93but you have no choice of where you will go, in what manner or when. Free choice beyond the immediate decision is a gamble. Here, nothing is left
 to chance. Here, you have the absolute security of pre-determination.\'94
\par \'93What the hell is this?\'94 demanded Hal. \'93You have heard the rule,\'94 said the voice, \'93You decided to come here. The die is cast.\'94
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 What have I gotten us into?}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  wondered Hal. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 I should have l
istened to Ruth when she wanted to go on.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par Ruth was trembling so sharply that she shook his arm; he fought down a panic of his own. \'93Hal, let\rquote s get out of here,\'94 she said.
\par \'93Careful,\'94 he said. \'93Something\rquote s very wrong.\'94 He patted her hand with what he hoped was some reassurance. \'93Let\rquote s\'85 go\'85 down\'85 to\'85 the\'85 lobby,\'94
 he said, spacing his words evenly. He squeezed her hand. She took a shuddering breath. \'93Yes, I want to go.\'94 }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 And how are we going to do it?}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
 he wondered. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 No handle on the door.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  He looked to the windows and the night beyond them. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
Four stories down.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  \'93You have decided to go to the lobby?\'94 asked the voice. \'93Yes,\'94 said Hal.
\par \'93Your decision has been entered,\'94 said the voice. \'93Time was allotted when you entered.\'94
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Time allotted,}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  he thought. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Ruth had it pegged: A prison.}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par \'93What\rquote s going to happen to us?\'94 she asked. She turned, buried her face against him. \'93Darling, don\rquote t let anything happen to us.\'94
\par He held her tightly, looking around the room.
\par The hall door swung inward.
\par \'93The door just opened,\'94 he said. \'93Be calm. Don\rquote t let go of my arm.\'94
\par He led the way out of the room and to the elevator. No operator in the elevator, but the door closed as soon as they entered. The car descended, came to a smooth stop; the door opened.
\par People!
\par The change in the lobby hit them as soon as they left the elevator.
\par The lobby thronged with people. Silent, watchful people\emdash strolling singly, in couples, in groups.
\par \'93I saw you come in and decided at that moment to speak to you.\'94 It was a woman\rquote s voice: old, quavering.
\par Hal and Ruth turned to their left toward the voice. The speaker was grey-haired with a narrow, seamed face. She wore a blue dress of old-fashioned cut that hung loosely about her body as though she had withered away from it.
\par Hal tried to speak, found with sudden panic that he could not utter a sound.
\par \'93I imagine several of us made the same decision,\'94 said the old woman. Her eyes glittered as she stared at them. \'93This time fell to me.\'94 She nodded. \'93Presumably you will not be able to talk to me because you haven\rquote 
t placed a decision and it does seem somewhat chancey. No matter.\'94
\par She shook her grey head. \'93I know your questions. You\rquote re strays by the look of you. Newlyweds, too, I\rquote d guess. More\rquote s the pity.\'94
\par Again, Hal tried to speak, couldn\rquote t. He felt a strange stillness in Ruth beside him. He looked down at her. Ruth\rquote s face had a strained, bloodless appearance.
\par \'93We can give you a pretty educated guess as to what this hotel is,\'94 said the old woman. \'93It\rquote s a kind of a hospital from some far off place. Why it\rquote s located here we don\rquote t know. But we\rquote re pretty certain of what it
\rquote s supposed to do: it\rquote s supposed to cure the gambling habit.\'94
\par Again the old woman nodded as though at some inner thought.
\par \'93I had the habit myself,\'94 she said. \'93We think the hotel has an aura that attracts gamblers when they come within range. Sometimes it picks up strays like yourselves. But it\rquote s a machine and can\rquote 
t refine its selection. It considers the strangest things to be gambling!\'94
\par Hal remembered the rumbling voice in the room: \'93No Gambling!\'94
\par Behind the woman, in the center of the lobby, a short man in a high-necked collar and suit that had been fashionable in the mid-twenties abruptly clutched his throat. He fell to the floor without a sound, lay there like a mound of soiled laundry.
\par The nightmare feeling returned to Hal.
\par From somewhere, the ancient bellboy appeared on the scene, hurried across the lobby, dragged the fallen man from sight around a corner.
\par \'93Someone just died,\'94 said the old woman. \'93I can see it in your eyes. The time of your death is chosen the moment you enter this place. Even the way you\rquote ll die.\'94 She shuddered. \'93Some of the ways are not pleasant.\'94
\par Coldness clutched at Hal.
\par The old woman sighed. \'93You\rquote ll want to know if there\rquote s hope of escape.\'94 She shrugged. \'93Perhaps. Some just disappear. But maybe that\rquote s another\'85 way.\'94
\par With an abrupt wrenching sensation, Hal found his voice. It startled him so that all he could say was: \'93I can speak.\'94 His voice came out flat and expressionless. Then: \'93There must be some choice.\'94
\par The old woman shook her head. \'93No. The moment for you to speak\emdash alone or in company\emdash was set when you came in that front door.\'94
\par Hal took two quick deep breaths, fought for the power to reason in spite of fear. He gripped Ruth\rquote s arm, not daring to look at her, not wanting the distraction. There had to be a w
ay out of this place. An ace trouble shooter for an electronics instruments factory should be the one to find that way.
\par \'93What would happen if I tried to gamble?\'94 he asked.
\par The old woman shuddered. \'93The device you chose for gambling would be removed,\'94 she said. \'93That\rquote s the reason you two mustn\rquote t\'85\'94 she hesitated \'93\'85 sleep together.\'94
\par Hal took a coin from his pocket, flipped it into the air. \'93Call it and it\rquote s yours,\'94 he said.
\par The coin failed to come down.
\par \'93You\rquote re being shown the power of this place,\'94 said the old woman. \'93You mustn\rquote t gamble\'85 the instrument of chance is always removed.\'94
\par An abrupt thought washed through Hal\rquote s mind. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Would it\'85}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  He wet his lips with his tongue, fought to keep his face expressionless. }{
\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 It\rquote s crazy,}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  he thought. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 But no crazier than this nightmare.}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par Slowly, he took another coin from his pocket.
\par \'93My wife and I are going to gamble again,\'94 he said. \'93We are going to gamble, using the hotel }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 and}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
 this coin as the gambling device. The moment of interference is the thing upon which we are gambling.\'94
\par He felt an intensification of the silence in the lobby, was extremely conscious of Ruth\rquote s fingers digging into his arm, the curious questioning look on the old woman\rquote s face.
\par \'93We are gambling upon the moment when the hotel will remove my coin or }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 if}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  it will remove my coin,\'94 he said. \'93
We will make one of several decisions dependent upon the moment of interference or the lack of interference.\'94
\par A deep grinding rumble shook the hotel.
\par He flipped the coin.
\par Hal and Ruth found themselves standing alone on a sand dune, moonlight painting the desert a ghostly silver around them. They could see the dark shape of their car on another dune.
\par Ruth threw herself into his arms, clung to him, sobbing.
\par He stroked her shoulder.
\par \'93I hope they all heard me,\'94 he said. \'93That hotel is a robot. It has to remove }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 itself}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  when it becomes a gambling device.\'94
\par }\pard\plain \s1\qc \li595\ri595\sb1440\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \b\fs48\lang1049\langfe1049\kerning36\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
{\*\bkmkstart _Looking_for_Something?}{\*\bkmkend _Looking_for_Something?}Looking for Something?
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
Mirsar Wees, chief indoctrinator for Sol III sub-prefecture, was defying the intent of the Relaxation-room in his quarters. He buzzed furiously back and forth from me
tal wall to metal wall, his pedal-membrane making a cricket-like sound as the vacuum cups disengaged.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 \'93The fools!\'94 he thought. \'93
The stupid, incompetent, mindless fools!\'94
\par Mirsar Wees was a Denebian. His race had originated more than three million earth years ago on the fourth planet circling the star Deneb\emdash 
a planet no longer existing. His profile was curiously similar to that of a tall woman in a floor-length dress, with the vacuum-cup pedal-membrane contacting the floor under the \'93skirt.\'94 His eight speciali
zed extensors waved now in a typical Denebian rage-pattern. His mouth, a thin transverse slit entirely separate from the olfactory-lung orifice directly below it, spewed forth a multi-lingual stream of invective against the assistant who cowered before hi
m.
\par \'93How did this happen?\'94 he shouted. \'93I take my first vacation in one hundred years and come back to find my career almost shattered by your incompetency!\'94
\par Mirsar Wees turned and buzzed back across the room. Through his vision-ring, an organ somewhat like 
a glittering white tricycle-tire jammed down about one-third of the distance over his head, he examined again the report on Earthling Paul Marcus and maintained a baleful stare upon his assistant behind him. Activating the vision cells at his left, he exa
mined the wall chronometer.
\par \'93So little time,\'94 he muttered. \'93If only I had someone at Central Processing who could see a deviant when it comes by! Now I\rquote ll have to take care of this bumble myself, before it gets out of hand. If they hear of it back at the bureau\'85
\'94
\par Mirsar Wees, the Denebian, a cog in the galaxy-wide korad-farming empire of his race, pivoted on his pedal-membrane and went out a door which opened soundlessly before him. The humans who saw his flame-like profile this night would keep alive the fo
lk tales of ghosts, djinn, little people, fairies, elves, pixies\'85
\par Were they given the vision to see it, they would know also that an angry overseer had passed. But they would not see this, of course. That was part of Mirsar Wees\rquote  job.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 It was mainly because
 Paul Marcus was a professional hypnotist that he obtained an aborted glimpse of the rulers of the world.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
The night it happened he was inducing a post-hypnotic command into the mind of an audience-participant to his show on the stage of the Roxy Theater in Tacoma, Washington.
\par Paul was a tall, thin man with a wide head which appeared large because of this feature although it really was not. He wore a black tailcoat and formal trousers, jewelled cuff links and chalkwhite cuffs, which gleamed and flashed as he
 gestured. A red spotlight in the balcony gave a Mephisto cast to his stage-setting, which was dominated by a backdrop of satin black against which gleamed two giant, luminous eyes. He was billed as \'93Marcus the Mystic\'94 and he looked the part.
\par The subject w
as a blonde girl whom Paul had chosen because she displayed signs of a higher than ordinary intelligence, a general characteristic of persons who are easily hypnotized. The woman had a good figure and showed sufficient leg when she sat down on the chair t
o excite whistles and cat-calls from the front rows. She flushed, but maintained her composure.
\par \'93What is your name, please?\'94 Paul asked.
\par She answered in a contralto voice, \'93Madelyne Walker.\'94
\par \'93Miss or Mrs.?\'94
\par She said, \'93Miss.\'94
\par Paul held up his right hand. From it dangled a gold chain on the end of which was a large paste gem with many facets cut into its surface. A spotlight in the wings was so directed that it reflected countless star-bursts from the gem.
\par \'93If you will look at the diamond,\'94 Paul said. \'93Just keep your eyes on it.\'94
\par He began to swing the gem rhythmically, like a pendulum, from side to side. The girl\rquote s eyes followed it. Paul waited until her eyes were moving in rhythm with the swinging bauble before he began to recite in a slow monotone, timed to the pendulum:

\par \'93Sleep. You will fall asleep\'85 deep sleep\'85 deep sleep\'85 asleep\'85 deep asleep\'85 asleep\'85 asleep\'85\'94
\par Her eyes followed the gem.
\par \'93Your eyelids will become heavy,\'94 Paul said. \'93Sleep. Go to sleep. You are falling asleep\'85 deep, restful sleep\'85 healing sleep\'85 deep asleep\'85 asleep\'85 asleep\'85 asleep\'85\'94
\par Her head began to nod, eyelids to close and pop open, slower and slower. Paul gently moved his left hand up to the chain. In the same monotone he said, \'93When the diamond stops swinging you will fall into a deep, rest
ful sleep from which only I can awaken you.\'94
 He allowed the gem to swing slower and slower in shorter and shorter sweeps. Finally, he put both palms against the chain and rotated it. The bauble at the end of the chain began to whirl rapidly, its facets cor
uscating with the reflections of the spotlight.
\par Miss Walker\rquote s head fell forward and Paul kept her from falling off the chair by grasping her shoulder. She was in deep trance. He began demonstrating to the audience the classic symptoms which accompany this\emdash 
insensitivity to pain, body rigidity, complete obedience to the hypnotist\rquote s voice.
\par The show went along in routine fashion. Miss Walker barked like a dog. She became the dowager queen with dignified mien. She refused to answer to her own name. She conducted the imaginary symphony orchestra. She sang an operatic aria.
\par The audience applauded at the correct places in the performance. Paul bowed. He had his subject deliver a wooden bow, too. He wound up to the finale.
\par \'93When I snap my fingers you will awaken,\'94 he said. \'93
You will feel completely refreshed as though after a sound sleep. Ten seconds after you awaken you will imagine yourself on a crowded streetcar where no one will give you a seat. You will be extremely tired. Finally, you will ask the fat man opposi
te you to give you his seat. He will do so and you will sit down. Do you understand?\'94
\par Miss Walker nodded her head.
\par \'93You will remember nothing of this when you awaken,\'94 Paul said.
\par He raised his hand to snap his fingers\'85
\par It was then that Paul Marcus received his mind-jarring idea. He held his hand up, fingers ready to snap, thinking about this idea, until he heard the audience stirring restlessly behind him. Then he shook his head and snapped his fingers.
\par Miss Walker awakened slowly, looked around, got up, and exactly ten seconds later began the streetcar hallucinations. She performed exactly as commanded, again awakened, and descended confusedly from the stage to more applause and whistles.
\par It should have been gratifying. But from the moment he received }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 the}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  i
dea, the performance could have involved someone other than Paul Marcus for all of the attention he gave it. Habit carried him through the closing routine, the brief comments on the powers of hypnotism, the curtain calls. Then he walked back to his dressi
ng room slowly, preoccupied, unbuttoning his studs on the way as he always did following the last performance of the night. The concrete cave below stage echoed to his footsteps.
\par In the dressing room he removed the tailcoat and hung it in the wardrobe. Then he sat down before the dressing table mirror and began to cream his face preparatory to removing the light makeup he wore. He found it hard to meet his own eyes in the mirror.

\par \'93This is silly,\'94 he told himself sourly.
\par A knock sounded at the door. Without turning, he said, \'93Come in.\'94
\par The door opened hesitantly and the blonde Miss Walker stepped into the room.
\par \'93Excuse me,\'94 she said. \'93The man at the door said you were in here and\'85\'94
\par Seeing her in the mirror, Paul turned around and stood up.
\par \'93Is something wrong?\'94 he asked.
\par Miss Walker looked around her as though to make sure they were alone before she answered.
\par \'93Not exactly,\'94 she said.
\par Paul gestured to a settee beside his dressing table. \'93Sit down, won\rquote t you?\'94 he asked. He returned to the dressing table as Miss Walker seated herself.
\par \'93You\rquote ll excuse me if I go on with this chore,\'94 he said, taking a tissue to the grease paint under his chin.
\par Miss Walker smiled. \'93You remind me of a woman at her nightly beauty care,\'94 she said.
\par Paul thought: Another stage-struck miss, and the performance gives her the excuse to take up my time. He glanced at the girl out of the corners of his eyes. \'93Not bad, though\'85\'94
\par \'93You haven\rquote t told me to what I owe the pleasure of your company,\'94 he said.
\par Miss Walker\rquote s face clouded with thought.
\par \'93It\rquote s really very silly,\'94 she said.
\par Probably, Paul thought.
\par \'93Not at all,\'94 he said. \'93Tell me what\rquote s on your mind.\'94
\par \'93Well, it\rquote s an idea I had while my friends were telling me what I did on the stage,\'94 she said. She grinned wryly. \'93I had the hardest time believing that there actually wasn\rquote t a streetcar up there. I\rquote 
m still not absolutely convinced. Maybe you brought in a dummy streetcar with a lot of actors. Oh, I don\rquote t know!\'94 She shook her head and put a hand to her eyes.
\par The way she said, \'93I don\rquote t know!\'94 reminded Paul of his own idea; }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 the}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
 idea. He decided to give Miss Walker the fast brush-off in order to devote more time to thinking this new idea through to some logical conclusion.
\par \'93What about the streetcar?\'94 he asked.
\par The girl\rquote s face assumed a worried expression. \'93I thought I was on a real streetcar,\'94 she said. \'93There was no audience, no\'85 hypnotist. Nothing. Just the reality of riding the streetcar and being tired like you are after a hard day
\rquote s work. I saw the people on the car. I smelled them. I felt the car under my feet. I heard the money bounce in the coin-catcher and all the other noises one hears on a streetcar\emdash 
people talking, a man opening his newspaper. I saw the fat man sitting there in front of me. I asked him for his seat. I even felt embarrassed. I hea
rd him answer and I sat down in his seat. It was warm and I felt the people pressing against me on both sides. It was very real.\'94
\par \'93And what bothers you?\'94 Paul asked.
\par She looked up from her hands which were tightly clasped in her lap.
\par \'93That bothers me,\'94 she said. \'93That streetcar. It was real. It was as real as anything I\rquote ve ever known. It was as real as now. I believed in it. Now I\rquote m told it wasn\rquote t real.\'94 Again she looked down at her hands. \'93
What am I to believe?\'94
\par This is getting close to }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 the}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  idea, Paul thought.
\par \'93Can you express what bothers you in any other way?\'94 he asked.
\par She looked him squarely in the eyes. \'93Yes,\'94 she said. \'93I got to thinking while my friends were talking to me. I got to wondering. What if all this\emdash \'94 she gestured around her\emdash \'93our whole live
s, our world, everything we see, feel, hear, smell, or sense in any way is more of the same. A hypnotic delusion!\'94
\par \'93Precisely!\'94 Paul exhaled the word.
\par \'93What did you say?\'94 she asked.
\par \'93I said, \lquote Precisely!\rquote \'94
\par Her brows drew together. \'93Why?\'94
\par Paul turned toward her and rested his left elbow on the dressing table. \'93Because,\'94 he said, \'93
at the very moment I was telling you what you would do when you awakened, at the moment I was giving you the commands which resulted in your hallucination, I got the same idea.\'94
\par \'93My goodness!\'94 she said. The very mildness of her exclamation made it seem more vehement than if she had sworn.
\par Paul turned back to the dressing table mirror. \'93I wonder if there could be something in telepathy as well?\'94
\par Miss Walker looked at him in the mirror, the room seeming to draw in closely behind her. \'93It was an idea I couldn\rquote t keep to myself,\'94 she said. \'93I told my friends\emdash I came with a married couple\emdash 
but they just laughed at me. I decided on the spur of the moment to come back here and talk to you and I did it before I could lose my nerve. After all, you\rquote re a hypnotist. You should know something about this.\'94
\par \'93It\rquote ll take some looking into,\'94 Paul said, \'93I wonder\'85\'94 He turned toward Miss Walker. \'93Are you engaged tonight?\'94
\par Her expression changed. She looked at him as though her mother were whispering in her ear: \'93Watch out! Watch out! He\rquote s a man.\'94
\par \'93Well, I don\rquote t know\'85\'94 she said.
\par Paul put on his most winning smile. \'93I\rquote m no backstage wolf,\'94 he said. \'93Please. I feel as though somebody had asked me to cut the Gordian knot, and I\rquote d rather untie it\emdash but I need help.\'94
\par \'93What could we do?\'94 she asked.
\par It was Paul\rquote s turn to hesitate. \'93There are several ways to approach the problem,\'94 he said. \'93We in America have only scratched the surface in our study of hypnotism.\'94 He doubled up his fist and thudded it gently on the dressing table. 
\'93Hell! I\rquote ve seen witch doctors in Haiti who know more about it than I do. But\'85\'94
\par \'93What would you do first?\'94 she asked.
\par \'93I\rquote d\'85 I\rquote d\'85\'94 Paul looked at her for a moment as though he really saw her for the first time. \'93I\rquote d do this,\'94 he said. \'93Make yourself comfortable on that settee. Lean back. That\rquote s it.\'94
\par \'93What are you going to do?\'94 she asked.
\par \'93Well,\'94 Paul said, \'93it\rquote s pretty well established that these sensory hallucinations are centered in one part of the human nervous system which is laid bare by hypnotism. It\rquote 
s possible, by using hypnotism, to get at the commands other hypnotists have put there. I\rquote m going to put you back in deep trance and let you search for the commands yourself. If something is comman
ding us to live an illusion, the command should be right there with all the others.\'94
\par \'93I don\rquote t know,\'94 she said.
\par \'93Please,\'94 Paul urged. \'93We might be able to crack this thing right here and now in just a few minutes.\'94
\par \'93All right.\'94 She still sounded hesitant, but she leaned back as directed.
\par Paul lifted his paste gem from the dressing table and focused the table spotlight on it. \'93Look at the diamond,\'94 he said\'85.
\par This time she fell into the trance more readily. Paul checked her for pain threshold, muscular control. She responded appropriately. He began questioning:
\par \'93Do you hear my voice?\'94
\par \'93Yes,\'94 she said.
\par \'93Do you know what hypnotic commands are in your mind?\'94 he asked.
\par There was a long pause. Her lips opened dryly. \'93There are\'85 commands,\'94 she said.
\par \'93Do you obey them?\'94 he asked.
\par \'93I must.\'94
\par \'93What is the most basic of these commands?\'94 he asked.
\par \'93I\'85 can\'85 not\'85 tell.\'94
\par Paul almost rubbed his hands. A simple \'93Don\rquote t talk about it,\'94 he thought.
\par \'93Just nod your head if I repeat the command,\'94 he said. \'93Does it say, \lquote You must not tell\rquote ?\'94
\par Her head nodded.
\par Paul rubbed his hands against his pants legs and realized suddenly that he was perspiring excessively.
\par \'93What is it you must not tell?\'94 he asked.
\par She shook her head without speaking.
\par \'93You must tell me,\'94 he said. \'93If you do not tell me, your right foot will begin to burn and itch unbearably and will continue to do so until you do tell me. Tell me what it is that you have been commanded not to tell.\'94
\par Again she shook her head. She reached down and began to scratch her right foot. She pulled off her shoe.
\par \'93You must tell me,\'94 Paul said. \'93What is the first word of the command?\'94
\par The girl looked up at him, but her eyes remained unfocused.
\par \'93You\'85\'94 she said.
\par It was as though she had brought the word from some dark place deep within her and the saying of it was almost too much to bear. She continued to scratch her right leg.
\par \'93What is the second word?\'94 Paul asked.
\par She tried to speak, but failed.
\par \'93Is it \lquote must\rquote ?\'94 he asked. \'93Nod your head if it is.\'94
\par She nodded her head.
\par \'93You \lquote must\rquote  what?\'94
\par Again she was wordless.
\par He thought about it for a moment. \'93Sensory perception,\'94 he thought. He leaned forward. \'93Is it \lquote You must sense\'85\rquote ?\'94 he asked. \'93Is it \lquote You must sense only\'85\rquote ?\'94
\par She relaxed. Her head nodded and she said, \'93Yes.\'94
\par Paul took a deep breath.
\par \'93What is it \lquote You must sense only\'85\rquote ?\'94 he asked.
\par She opened her mouth, her lips moved, but no sound issued.
\par He felt like screaming at her, dragging the answer from her mind with his hands.
\par \'93What is it?\'94 His voice cracked on the question. \'93Tell me!\'94
\par She shook her head from side to side. He noticed signs of awakening.
\par Again he took a deep breath. \'93What will happen to you if you tell me?\'94
\par \'93I\rquote ll die,\'94 she said.
\par He leaned forward and lowered his voice to a confidential tone. \'93That is foolishness,\'94 he said. \'93You can\rquote t die just because you say a few words. You know that. Now tell me what it is that you have been ordered to sense.\'94
\par She stared straight ahead of her at nothing, mouth open. Paul lowered his head to look directly into her eyes. \'93Do you see me?\'94 he asked.
\par \'93No,\'94 she said.
\par \'93What do you see?\'94 he asked.
\par \'93I see death.\'94
\par \'93Look at me instead,\'94 Paul said. \'93You remember me.\'94
\par \'93You are death,\'94 she said.
\par \'93That\rquote s nonsense! Look at me,\'94 he commanded.
\par Her eyes opened wider. Paul stared into them. Her eyes seemed to grow and grow and grow and grow\'85
 Paul found himself unable to look away. There was nothing else in the world except two blue-gray eyes. A deep, resonant voice, like a low-register cello, filled his mind.
\par \'93You will forget everything that has happened tonight,\'94 it said. \'93You will die rather than remember. You will, you }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 must,}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
 sense only those things which you have been commanded to sense. I, -----------------------------, command it. Do you remember me?\'94
\par Paul\rquote s lips formed the word, \'93yes\'94.
\par \'93Who am I?\'94 the voice asked.
\par Paul dampened his dry lips with his tongue. \'93You are death,\'94 he said.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\f407\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
Bureaucracy has a kind of timeless, raceless mold which makes its communiqu\'e9s recognizable as to type by the members of any bureau anywhere. The multiple copies, the precise wording to cover devious}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
 intent, the absolute protocol of address\emdash all are of a pattern, whether the communication is to the Reconstruction Finance Corporation or the Denebian Bureau of Indoctrination.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
Mirsar Wees knew the pattern as another instinct. He had been supervisor of indoctrination and overseer of the korad farming on Sol III for one hundred and fifty-seven of the planet\rquote 
s years. In that time, by faithfully following the letter of the Indoctrination Bureau\rquote s code and never an individual interpretation of its spirit, he ha
d insured for himself a promotion to Coordinator of the entire Sol prefecture whenever such an opening occurred.
\par Having met another threat to his position and resolved it, knowing the security of his tenure, he sat before the mechanical secretary-transmitt
er in his office and dictated a letter to the Bureau. The vision-ring around his head glowed a dull amber as he relaxed the receptors in it. His body stretched out comfortably, taking a gentle massage from the chair.
\par \'93There has been considerable carelessness lately with the training of neo-indoctrinators,\'94 he said into the communo-tube.
\par Let a few heads fall at the bureau, he thought.
\par \'93There seems to be a feeling that, because we of the Sol prefecture are dealing with lesser beings, a lesser amount of care need be taken with the prefecture\rquote 
s indoctrinators. I have just dealt with a first-order threat to the Sol III korad supply, a threat which was directly attributable to neo-indoctrinator carelessness. A deviant was allowed to pass through the hands of three
 of our latest acquisitions from the College of Indoctrinators. These indoctrinators have been sent back for retraining.\'94
\par He thought in satisfaction: They will reflect that the korad secreted by the glands of our charges is necessary for their own immortal
ity, and will be more severe at the training center because of that. And pensively: It is almost time for me to tell them of our breeding experiments to bring the korad glands to the exterior of these creatures, making more frequent draining possible. The
y will particularly appreciate the niceties of indoctrination\emdash 
increasing the mating pattern, increasing individual peril and, thereby, the longevity gland secretion, and the more strict visual limitation to keep the creatures from discovering the change\'85.
\par \'93I am sending a complete visio-corder report on how I met this threat,\'94 he spoke into the tube. \'93Briefly, I insinuated myself into the earth-being\rquote 
s presence and installed a more severe command. Standard procedure. It was not deemed practical to eliminate the creature because of the latest interpretations on command interference; it was felt that the being\rquote 
s elimination might set off further thought-patterns inimical to our designs.
\par \'93The creature was, therefore, commanded to mate with another of its ilk who 
is more stringently under our control. The creature also was removed from any labor involving the higher nerve-centers and has been put to another task, that of operating a transportation device called a streetcar.
\par \'93The mate has been subjected to the amput
ation of an appendage. Unfortunately, before I could take action, the creature I treated had started along an exceedingly clever line of action and had installed irremovable commands which made the appendage useless.\'94
\par They will see how much of a deviant the creature was, he thought, and how careless the new indoctrinators were.
\par \'93The indoctrinator service must keep in mind at all times what happened to create the Sol planetoid belt. Those bodies, as we all know, once were the planet Dirad, the greatest korad
 source in the entire galaxy. Slipshod procedure employed by indoctrinators set up a situation similar to the one I have just nipped, and we were forced to destroy the entire planet. The potency of minds which have slipped from our control should be kept 
constantly before our attention. Dirad is an object lesson.
\par \'93The situation here is again completely normal, of course, and the korad supply is safe. We can go on draining the immortality of others\emdash but }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 only as long as we maintain constant vigilance.}
{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 \'94
\par He signed it, \'93Cordially, Mirsar Wees, Chief Indoctrinator, Sol Sub-prefecture.\'94
\par Someday, he thought, it will be \'93Coordinator.\'94
\par Rising from the mechano-secretary, Mirsar Wees moved over to the \'93incoming\'94 tube of his report-panel and noticed a tube which his new assistant had tabbed with the yellow band of \'93extreme importance.\'94
\par He inserted the tube into a translator, sat down, and watched as it dealt out the report:
\par \'93A Hindu creature has seen itself as it really is,\'94 the report said.
\par Mirsar Wees reached over and put a tracer-beam on his new assistant to observe how that worthy was meeting this threat.
\par The report buzzed on: \'93The creature went insane as per indoctrination command, but most unfortunately it is a member of a sect which worships insanity. Others are beginning to listen to its babblings.\'94
\par The report concluded: \'93I make haste.\'94
\par Mirsar Wees leaned back, relaxed and smiled blandly. The new assistant showed promise.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\qc \li595\ri595\sb1440\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \b\fs48\lang1049\langfe1049\kerning36\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
{\*\bkmkstart _The_Gone_Dogs}{\*\bkmkend _The_Gone_Dogs}The Gone Dogs
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
A green turbo-copter moved over the New Mexico sand flats, its rotor blades going whik-whik-whik. Evening sunlight cast deep shadows ahead of it where the ground shelved away to a river canyon. The \rquote 
copter settled to a rock outcropping, a hatch popped open and a steel cage containing one female coyote was thrown out. The cage door fell 
away. In one jump, the animal was out of its prison and running. It whisked over the outcropping, leaped down to a ledge along the canyon wall and was out of sight around a bend\emdash in its blood a mutated virus which had started with hog cholera.

\par The lab had a
 sharp chemical odor in which could be detected iodoform and ether. Under it was that musky, wet-fur smell found in the presence of caged animals. A despondent fox terrier sulked in a cage at one end; the remains of a poodle were stretched on a dissecting
 board atop a central bench, a tag on its leg labelled }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 X-8, PULLMAN VETERINARY RESEARCH CENTER, LABORATORY E.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
 Indirect lighting touched everything with a shadowless indifference.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
Biologist Varley Trent, a lanky, dark-haired man with angular features, put hi
s scalpel in a tray beside the poodle, stepped back, looked across at Dr. Walter Han-Meers, professor of veterinary medicine. The professor was a plump, sandy-haired Chinese-Dutchman with the smooth-skinned look of an Oriental idol. He stood beside the di
ssecting bench, staring at the poodle.
\par \'93Another failure,\'94 said Trent. \'93Each one of these I autopsy, I say to myself we\rquote re that much closer to the last dog on Earth.\'94
\par The professor nodded. \'93Came down to give you the latest. Don\rquote t see how it helps us, but for what it\rquote s worth, this virus started in coyote.\'94
\par \'93Coyote?\'94
\par Professor Han-Meers found a lab stool, pulled it up, sat down. \'93Yes. Ranch hand in New Mexico broke it. Talked to the authorities. His boss, a fellow named Porter Durkin, is a V.M.D., has a veterin
ary hospital on a ranch down there. Used a radioactive carbon egg to mutate hog cholera. Hoped to make a name for himself, killing off all the coyotes. Made a name for himself all right. Government had to move in troops to keep him from being lynched.\'94

\par Trent ran a hand through his hair. \'93Didn\rquote t the fool realize his disease would spread to other canines?\'94
\par \'93Apparently didn\rquote t even think of it. He has a license from one of those little hogwallow colleges, but I don\rquote t see how anyone that stupid could make the grade.\'94
\par \'93How about the coyote?\'94
\par \'93Oh, that was a great success. Sheep ranchers say they haven\rquote t lost an animal to coyotes in over a month. Only things worrying them now are bears, cougars and the lack of dogs to\'85\'94
\par \'93Speaking of dogs,\'94 said Trent, \'93we\rquote re going to need more test animals here by tomorrow. Serum nine isn\rquote t doing a thing for that fox terrier. He\rquote ll die tonight sometime.\'94
\par \'93We\rquote ll have lots of test animals by tomorrow,\'94 said Han-Meers. \'93The last two dog isolation preserves in Canada reported primary infestations this morning.\'94
\par Trent drummed his fingers on the bench top. \'93What\rquote s the government doing about the offer from the Vegan biophysicists?\'94
\par Han-Meers shrugged. \'93We are still turning them down. The Vegans are holding out for full control of the project. You know their reputation for bio-physical alterations. They might be able to save our dogs for us, but what we\rquote d get back wouldn
\rquote t be a dog any longer. It\rquote d be some elongated, multi-legged, scaly-tailed monstrosity. I wish I knew why they went in for those fish-tail types.\'94
\par \'93Linked gene,\'94 said Trent. \'93Intelligence factor coupled. They use their }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 mikeses}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  generators to open up the gene pairs and\'85\'94
\par \'93That\rquote s right,\'94 said Han-Meers. \'93You studied with them. What\rquote s the name of that Vegan you\rquote re always talking about?\'94
\par \'93Ger (whistle) Anso-Anso.\'94
\par \'93That\rquote s the one. Isn\rquote t he on Earth with the Vegan delegation?\'94
\par Trent nodded. \'93I met him at the Quebec conference ten years ago\emdash the year before we made the bio-physical survey to Vega. He\rquote s really a nice fellow once you get to know him.\'94
\par \'93Not for me.\'94 Han-Meers shook his head. \'93They\rquote re too tall and disdainful. Make me feel inferior. Always harping about their damned }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 mikeses}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  generators and what they can do in bio-physics.\'94
\par \'93They can do it, too.\'94
\par \'93That\rquote s what makes them so damned irritating!\'94
\par Trent laughed. \'93If it\rquote ll make you feel any better, the Vegans may be all puffed up with pride about their biophysics, but they\rquote re jealous as all git-out over our tool facility.\'94
\par \'93Hmmmph!\'94 said Han-Meers.
\par \'93I still think we should send them dogs for experimental purposes,\'94 said Trent. \'93The Lord knows we\rquote re not going to have any dogs left pretty soon at the rate we\rquote re going.\'94
\par \'93We won\rquote t send them a sick spaniel as long as Gilberto Nathal is in the Federated Senate,\'94 said Han-Meers. \'93Every time the subject comes up, he jumps to his feet and hollers about the pride of Earth and the out-worlder threat.\'94
\par \'93But\'85\'94
\par \'93It hasn\rquote t been too long since the Denebian campaign,\'94 said Han-Meers.
\par Trent wet his lips with his tongue. \'93Mmmmm, hmmmm. How are the other research centers coming?\'94
\par \'93Same as we are. The morning report shows a lot of words which sum up to a big round zero.\'94 Han-Meers reached into his pocket, extracted a yellow sheet of paper. \'93Here, you may as well see this. It\rquote ll be out pretty soon, anyway.\'94 H
e thrust the paper into Trent\rquote s hand.
\par Trent glanced at the heading:
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 BUREAU-GRAM\emdash DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND SANITATION\emdash PRIMARY SECRET:}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par He looked up at Han-Meers.
\par \'93Read it,\'94 said the professor.
\par Trent looked back to the }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 bureau-gram.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  \'93Department doctors today confirmed that Virus D-D which is attacking the world\rquote 
s canines is one-hundred percent fatal. In spite of all quarantine precautions it is spreading. The virus shows kinship to hog cholera, but will thrive in a solution of protomycetin strong enough to kill 
any other virus on the list. It shows ability to become dormant and anerobic. Unless a suitable weapon with which to combat this disease is found within two more months, Earth is in danger of losing its entire population of wolves, dogs, foxes, coyote\'85
\'94
\par Trent looked back to Han-Meers. \'93We\rquote ve all suspected it was this bad, but\'85\'94 He tapped the }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 bureau-gram.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par Han-Meers slipped the paper from Trent\rquote s grasp. \'93Varley, you held out on the census takers when they came around counting dogs, didn\rquote t you?\'94
\par Trent pursed his lips. \'93What makes you say a thing like that?\'94
\par \'93Varley, I wouldn\rquote t turn you over to the police. I am suggesting you contact your Vegan and give him your dogs.\'94
\par Trent took a deep breath. \'93I gave him five puppies last week.\'94
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 A Capital correspondent for a n
ews service had broken the story six weeks previously, following up a leak in the Health and Sanitation Committee of the Federated Senate. A new virus was attacking the world\rquote 
s canine population and no means of fighting it was known. People already realize
d their pets were dying off in droves. The news story was enough to cause a panic. Interstellar passenger space disappeared. Powerful men exerted influence for themselves and friends. People ran every which way with their pets, hopelessly tangling inter-w
orld quarantine restrictions. And the inevitable rackets appeared.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
SPECIAL CHARTER SHIP TO PLANETS OF AL-DEBARAN. STRICTEST QUARANTINE REQUIREMENTS. TRAINED ATTENDANTS TO GUARD YOUR PETS IN TRANSIT. PRICE: FIFTY THOUSAND CREDITS A KILO.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par The owners, of course, could not accompany their pets, shipping space being limited.
\par This racket was stopped when a Federation patrol ship ran into a strange meteor swarm beyond Pluto, stopped to map its course, discovered the swarm was composed of the frozen bodies of dogs.
\par Eleven days after the virus story appeared, the Arcturian planets banned Terran dogs. The Arcturians knew dog-smuggling would begin and their people could profit.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
Trent kept six part-beagle hounds in a servo-mech kennel at an Olympic Mountain hunting camp. They were at the camp when the government instituted its emergency census of dogs. Trent deliberately overlooked mentioning them.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Leaving Pullman at three o\rquote 
clock the morning after he talked to Han-Meers, he put his jet-\rquote copter on auto-pilot, slept until he reached Aberdeen.
\par The Aberdeen commander of the Federated Police was a graying, burn-scarred veteran of the Denebian campaign. His office was a square room overlooking the harbor. The walls were hung with out-world weapons, group photographs of officers
 and men. The commander stood up as Trent entered, waved him to a chair. \'93Makaroff\rquote s the name. What can I do for you?\'94
\par Trent introduced himself, sat down, explained that he was a member of the Pullman research staff, that he had nine hounds\emdash six adults and three puppies\emdash at a mountain kennel.
\par The commander seated himself, grasped the arms of his chair, leaned back. \'93Why aren\rquote t they in one of the government preserves?\'94
\par Trent looked the man in the eyes. \'93Because I was convinced they\rquote d be safer where they are and I was right. The preserves are infested. Yet my hounds are in perfect health. What\rquote s more, Commander, I\rquote 
ve discovered that humans are carrying the disease. We\'85\'94
\par \'93You mean if I pet a dog that could kill it?\'94
\par \'93That\rquote s right.\'94
\par The commander fell silent. Presently, he said, \'93So you disobeyed the quarantine act, eh?\'94
\par \'93Yes.\'94
\par \'93I\rquote ve done the same kind of thing myself on occasion,\'94 said the commander. \'93You see some stupid order given, you know it won\rquote t work; so you go against it. If you\rquote re wrong they throw the book at you; if you\rquote 
re right they pin a medal on you. I remember one time in the Denebian campaign when\'85\'94
\par \'93Could you put an air patrol over my camp?\'94 asked Trent.
\par The commander pulled at his chin. \'93Hounds, eh? Nothing better than a good hunting hound. Damned shame to see them die with all the rest.\'94 He paused. \'93Air patrol, eh? No humans?\'94
\par \'93We have two months to find an answer to this virus or there won\rquote t be another dog on earth,\'94 said Trent. \'93You see how important those dogs could be?\'94
\par \'93Bad as that, eh?\'94 He pulled a vidi-phone to him. \'93Get me Perlan.\'94 He turned to Trent. \'93Where is your camp?\'94
\par Trent gave him the vectors. The commander scribbled them on a scratch pad.
\par A face came on the screen. \'93Yes, sir.\'94
\par The commander turned back to the vidi-phone. \'93Perlan, I want a robotics air patrol\emdash twenty-four-hour duty\emdash over a hunting camp at,\'94 he glanced at the scratch pad, \'93vectors 8181-A and 0662-Y, Olympic West Slope. There\rquote 
s a kennel at the camp with nine hounds in it. No humans at all must contact those dogs.\'94 He wet his lips with his tongue. \'93A doctor has just told me that humans are carrying this Virus D-D thing.\'94
\par When Trent landed at Pullman that afternoon he found Han-Meers waiting in Lab E. The professor sat on the same stool as though he had not moved in two days. 
His slant eyes contemplated the cage which had held the fox terrier. Now there was an airdale in the enclosure. As Trent entered, Han-Meers turned.
\par \'93Varley, what is this the Aberdeen policeman tells the news services?\'94
\par Trent closed the lab door. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 So the commandant had talked.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par \'93Flores Clinic was on the line twice today,\'94 said Han-Meers. \'93Want to know what we discovered that they overlooked. The policeman has perhaps made up a story?\'94
\par Trent shook his head. \'93No. I told him a hunch of mine was an actual fact. I had to get an air patrol over my hunting camp. Those hounds are in perfect health.\'94
\par Han-Meers nodded. \'93They have been without such a convenience all summer. Now they have to have it.\'94
\par \'93I\rquote ve been afraid they were dead. After all, I raised those hounds from pups. We\rquote ve hunted and\'85\'94
\par \'93I see. And tomorrow we tell everybody it was a big mistake. I had thought you possessed more scientific integrity than that.\'94
\par Trent hid his anger behind a passive face, slipped off his coat, donned a lab smock. \'93My dogs were isolated from humans all summer. We\'85\'94
\par \'93The Flores people have been thorough in their investigation,\'94 said Han-Meers. \'93They suspect we are trying to\'85\'94
\par \'93Not thorough enough.\'94 Trent opened a cupboard door, took out a bottle of green liquid. \'93Are you going to stay here and help or are you going to let me tackle this one alone?\'94
\par Han-Meers took off his coat, found an extra lab smock. \'93You are out on a thin limb, Varley.\'94 He turned, smiled. \'93But what a wonderful opportunity to give those M.D.\rquote s a really big come-uppance.\'94
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
At nine-sixteen the next morning, Trent dropped a glass beaker. It shattered on the tile floor and Trent\rquote s calm shattered with it. He cursed for two minutes.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 \'93We are tired,\'94 said Han-Meers. 
\'93We will rest, come back to it later. I will put off the Flores people and the others today. There is still\'85\'94
\par \'93No.\'94 Trent shook his head. \'93We\rquote re going to take another skin wash on me with Clarendon\rquote s Astringent.\'94
\par \'93But we\rquote ve already tried that twice and\'85\'94
\par \'93Once more,\'94 said Trent. \'93This time we\rquote ll add the synthetic dog blood }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 before}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  fractionating.\'94
\par At ten-twenty-two, Han-Meers set the final test tube in a plastic diffraction rack, pressed a switch at its base. A small silver cobweb shimmered near the top of the tube.
\par \'93Ahhhhhh!\'94 said the professor.
\par They traced back. By noon they had the pattern: Dormant virus was carried in the human glands of perspiration, coming out through the pores\emdash mostly in the palms of the hands\emdash 
only under stress of emotion. Once out of the pores, the virus dried, became anerobic.
\par \'93If I hadn\rquote t dropped that beaker and become angry,\'94 said Trent.
\par \'93We would still be looking,\'94 added Han-Meers. \'93Devil of a one, this. Dormant and in minute quantity. That is why they missed it. Who tests an excited subject? They wait for him to become calm.\'94
\par \'93Each man kills the thing he loves,\'94 quoted Trent.
\par \'93Should pay more attention to philosophers like Oscar Wilde,\'94 said Han-Meers. \'93Now I will call the doctors, tell them of their error. They are not going to like a mere biologist showing them up.\'94
\par \'93It was an accident,\'94 said Trent.
\par \'93An accident based on observation of your dogs,\'94 said Han-Meers. \'93It is, of course, not the first time such accidents have occurred to mere biologists. There was Pasteur. They had him stoned in the village streets for\'85\'94
\par \'93Pasteur was a chemist,\'94 said Trent curtly. He turned, put test tube and stand on a side bench. \'93We\rquote ll have to tell the authorities to set up robotics service for the remaining dogs. That may give us time to see this thing through.\'94

\par \'93I will use your lab phone to call the doctors,\'94 said Han-Meers. \'93I cannot wait to hear that Flores\rquote  voice when\'85\'94
\par The phone rang. Han-Meers put it to his ear. \'93Yes. I am me\'85 I mean, I am here. Yes, I will take the call.\'94 He waited. \'93Oh, hello, Dr. Flores. I was just about to\'85\'94 Han-Meers fell silent, listened. \'93Oh, you did?\'94
 His voice was flat. \'93Yes, that agrees with our findings. Yes, through the pores of the hands mostly. We were waiting to confirm it, to be certain\'85 Yes, by our Dr. Trent. He\rquote s a biologist on the staff here. I believe some of your people w
ere his students. Brilliant fellow. Deserves full credit for the discovery.\'94 There was a long silence. \'93
I insist on scientific integrity, Dr. Flores, and I have your report in my hands. It absolves humans as carriers of the virus. I agree that this develop
ment will be bad for your clinic, but that cannot be helped. Good-bye, Dr. Flores. Thank you for calling.\'94 He hung up the phone, turned. Trent was nowhere in sight.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\cs17\i\f407\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
That afternoon the last remaining pureblood Saint Bernard died at Ang\'faac, Manitoba. By the }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
following morning, Georgian officials had confirmed that their isolation kennels near Igurtsk were infested. The, search for uninfected dogs continued, conducted now by robots. In all the world there were nine dogs known to be free of Virus D-D\emdash 
six adult hounds and three puppies. They sniffed around their mountain kennel, despondent at the lack of human companionship.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par When Trent arrived at his bachelor apartment that night he found a visitor, a tall (almost seven feet) Class C humanoid, head topped by twin,
 feather-haired crests, eyes shaded by slitted membranes like Venetian blinds. His slender body was covered by a blue robe, belted at the waist.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 \'93Ger!\'94
 said Trent. He shut the door.
\par \'93Friend Varley,\'94 said the Vegan in his odd, whistling tones.
\par They held out their hands, pressed palms together in the Vegan fashion. Ger\rquote s seven-fingered hands felt over-warm.
\par \'93You\rquote ve a fever,\'94 said Trent. \'93You\rquote ve been too long on Earth.\'94
\par \'93It is the accursed oxidized iron in your environment,\'94 said Ger. \'93I will take an increased dosage of medicine tonight.\'94 He relaxed his crests, a gesture denoting pleasure. \'93But it is good to see you again, Varley.\'94
\par \'93And you,\'94 said Trent. \'93How are the\'85\'94 He put a hand down, made the motion of petting a dog.
\par \'93That is why I came,\'94 said Ger. \'93We need more.\'94
\par \'93More? Are the others dead?\'94
\par \'93Their cells are alive in new descendants,\'94 said Ger. \'93We used an acceleration chamber to get several generations quickly, but we are not satisfied with the results. Those were very strange animals, Varley. Is it not p
eculiar that they were identical in appearance?\'94
\par \'93It sometimes happens,\'94 said Trent
\par \'93And the number of chromosomes,\'94 said Ger. \'93Aren\rquote t there\'85\'94
\par \'93Some special breeds differ,\'94 said Trent hurriedly.
\par \'93Oh.\'94 Ger nodded his head. \'93Do you have more of this breed we may take?\'94
\par \'93It\rquote ll be tricky to do,\'94 said Trent, \'93but maybe if we are very careful, we can get away with it.\'94
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Commander Makaroff was }{
\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 delighted}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  to renew his acquaintance with the famous Dr. Trent. He was }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 delighted}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  to meet the visitor from far Vega, although
 a little less delighted. It was clear the commander was generally suspicious of out-worlders. He ushered the two into his office, seated them, took his place behind his desk.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 \'93I\rquote 
d like a pass permitting Dr. Anso-Anso to visit my kennel,\'94 said Trent. \'93Not being an Earth-human, he does not carry the virus and it will be quite safe to\'85\'94
\par \'93Why?\'94
\par \'93You have, perhaps, heard of the Vegan skill in biophysics,\'94 said Trent. \'93Dr. Anso-Anso is assisting me in a line of research. He needs to take several blood and culture samples from\'85\'94
\par \'93Couldn\rquote t a robot do it?\'94
\par \'93The observations depend on highly specialized knowledge and there are no robots with this training.\'94
\par \'93Hmmm.\'94 Commander Makaroff considered this. \'93I see. Well, if you vouch for him, Dr. Trent, I\rquote m sure he\rquote s all right.\'94 His tone suggested that Dr. Trent }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 could be}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  mistaken. He took a pad from a drawer, scrawled a pass, handed it to Trent. \'93I\rquote ll have a police \rquote copter take you in.\'94
\par \'93We have a specially sterilized \rquote copter with our lab equipment,\'94 said Trent. \'93Robotics International is servicing it right now.\'94
\par Commander Makaroff nodded. \'93I see. Then I\rquote ll have an escort ready for you whenever you say.\'94
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
The summons came the next day on a pink sheet of paper:
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 \'93
Dr. Varley Trent is ordered to appear tomorrow before the special sub-committee of the Federated Senate Committee on Health and Sanitation at a hearing to be conducted at 4 p.m. in the office building of the Federated Senate.\'94 It was signed, \'93
Oscar Olaffson, special assistant to Sen. Gilberto Nathal.\'94
\par Trent accepted the summons in his lab, read it, took it up to Han-Meers\rquote  office.
\par The professor read the order, handed it back to Trent \'93Nothing is said about charges, Varley. Where were you yesterday?\'94
\par Trent sat down. \'93I got my Vegan friend into the preserve so he could snatch the three puppies. He\rquote s half way home with them by this time.\'94
\par \'93They discovered it on the morning count, of course,\'94 said Han-Meers. \'93Ordinarily, they\rquote d have just hauled you off to jail, but there\rquote s an election coming up. Nathal must be cozy with your Commander Makaroff.\'94
\par Trent looked at the floor.
\par \'93The Senator will crucify you in spite of your virus discovery,\'94 said Han-Meers. \'93I\rquote m afraid you\rquote ve made powerful enemies. Dr. Flores is the brother-in-law of Senator Grapopulus of the Appropriations Committee. They\rquote 
ll bring in Flores Clinic people to claim that the virus carrier could have been discovered without you.\'94
\par \'93But they\rquote re my dogs! I can\'85\'94
\par \'93Not since the emergency census and quarantine act,\'94 said Han-Meers. \'93You\rquote re guilty of sequestering government property.\'94 He pointed a finger at Trent. \'93And these enemies you\rquote ve made will\'85\'94
\par \'93}{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 I\rquote ve}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  made! }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 You}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
 were the one had to pull the grandstand act with Flores.\'94
\par \'93Now, Varley. Let\rquote s not quarrel among ourselves.\'94
\par Trent looked at the floor. \'93Okay. What\rquote s done is done.\'94
\par \'93I have a little idea,\'94 said Han-Meers. \'93The college survey ship, the Elmendorff, is out at Hartley Field. It has been fueled and fitted for a trip to Sagittarius.\'94
\par \'93What does that mean?\'94
\par \'93The ship is well guarded, of course, but a known member of the staff with a forged note from me could get aboard. Could you handle the Elmendorff alone?\'94
\par \'93Certainly. That\rquote s the ship we took to Vega on the biophysical survey.\'94
\par \'93Then run for it. Get that ship into hyper-drive and they\rquote ll never catch you.\'94
\par Trent shook his head. \'93That would be admitting my guilt.\'94
\par \'93Man, you }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 are}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  guilty! Senator Nathal is going to }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 discover}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  that tomorrow. It\rquote ll be big news. But if you run away, that will be bigger news and the senator\rquote s screaming will be just so much more background noise.\'94
\par \'93I don\rquote t know.\'94
\par \'93People are tired of his noises, Varley.\'94
\par \'93I still don\rquote t like it.\'94
\par \'93Varley, the senator is desperate for vote-getting news. Give him a little more time, a little more desperation, he\rquote ll go too far.\'94
\par \'93I\rquote m not worried about the senator. I\rquote m worried about\'85\'94
\par \'93The dogs,\'94 said Han-Meers. \'93And if you escaped to Vega you could give them the benefit of your knowledge of terrestrial biology. You\rquote d have to do it by remote control, of course, but\'85\'94 He left the idea dangling there.
\par Trent pursed his lips.
\par \'93Every minute you waste makes your chances of escape that much slimmer.\'94 Han-Meers pushed a pad toward Trent. \'93Here\rquote s my letterhead. Forge your note.\'94
\par Twenty minutes after Trent\rquote s \rquote copter took off for Hartley Field, a government \rquote copter settled to the campus parking area. Two men emerged, hurried to Han-Meers\rquote  office, presented police credentials. \'93We\rquote 
re looking for a Dr. Varley Trent. He\rquote s charged with violating the dog-restriction act. He\rquote s to be held in custody.\'94
\par Han-Meers looked properly horrified. \'93I think he went home. He said something about not feeling well.\'94
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
Senator Nathal raged. His plump body quivered. His normally red face became redder. He shouted, he screamed. His fuming countenance could be seen nightly on video. Just when he was reaching a fine 
climax, warning people against unbridled science, he was pushed aside by more important news.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 The last dog in an isolation preserve
\emdash a brindle chow\emdash died from virus infection. Before the senator could build up steam for a new attack, the government announced
 the discovery of an Arctic wolf pack of twenty-six animals untouched by virus. A day later, robot searchers turned up a live twelve-year-old mongrel on Easter Island and five cocker spaniels on Tierra del Fuego. Separate preserves for dogs and wolves wer
e prepared on the west slope of the Olympic Mountains, all of the animals transported there.
\par Wolves, cockers, mongrel and hounds\emdash they were the world\rquote s pets. Excursions in sealed \rquote copters were operated from Aberdeen to a point five kilometers from the dog-wo
lf preserve. There, powerful glasses sometimes gave a glimpse of motion which imagination could pad into a dog or wolf.
\par About the time Senator Nathal was getting ready to launch a new blast, pointing out that Trent\rquote s hounds were not necessarily important, that there had been other canine survivors, the twelve-year-old mongrel died of old age.
\par Dog lovers of the world mourned. The press took over and all the glory of mongreldom was rehashed. Senator Nathal again was background noise.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Trent headed for Vega, hi
t hyper-drive as soon as he had cleared the sun\rquote s area of warp. He knew that the Vegans would have to quarantine him to protect the dogs, but he could follow the experiments on video, help with his knowledge of terrestrial biology.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Professor Han-Meers, pro
testing ill health, turned his college duties over to an assistant, went on a vacation tour of the world. First, he stopped at the capital, met Senator Nathal, apologized for Dr. Trent\rquote s defection and praised the politician\rquote s stand.
\par In Geneva, Han-Meers me
t a pianist whose pet Dalmatians had been among the first to die in the epidemic. At Cairo, he met a government official who had bred wolf hounds, also among the first deceased. In Paris, he met the wife of a furrier whose pet airdale, }{
\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Coco,}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  had died in th
e third wave of the epidemic. In Moscow, in Bombay, in Calcutta, in Singapore, in Peking, in San Francisco, in Des Moines, in Chicago, he met others in like circumstances. To all he gave notes of introduction to Senator Nathal, explaining that the senator
 would see they received special treatment if they wanted to visit the Olympic preserve. Han-Meers expected at least one of these people to become a scandalous nuisance sufficient to insure the senator\rquote s political embarrassment.
\par The wife of the Paris furrie}{\f407\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 r, Mme. Estagi\'e9n Couloc, paid off, but in a manner Han-Meers had not anticipated.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
Mme. Couloc was a slim woman of perhaps forty-five, chic in the timeless French fashion, childless, with a narrow, haughty face and a manner to match it. But her grandmother 
had been a farm wife and underneath the surface of pampered rich woman, Mme. Couloc was tough. She came to Aberdeen complete with two maids, a small Alp of luggage and a note from Senator Nathal. She had convinced herself that all of this }{
\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 nonsense}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  about humans carrying the disease couldn\rquote t possibly apply to her. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
A few simple sanitary precautions and she could have a dog of her own.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
Mme. Couloc meant to have a part-beagle dog, no matter the cost. The fact that there were no dogs to be had, made her need all 
the more urgent. Cautious inquiries at Aberdeen convinced her this would have to be a lone-handed job. Amidst the tangled psychological desperation which filled her mind, she worked out a plan which had all of the evasive cunning characteristic of the men
tally ill.
\par From the air, on one of the daily excursions, Mme. Couloc surveyed the terrain. It was rugged enough to discourage a less determined person. The area had been maintained in its natural state for seven hundred years. Thick undergrowth of salal, de
vil club and huckleberry crowded the natural avenues of access to the interior. Rivers were full of the spring snow melt. Ridgetops were tangles of windfalls, wild blackberries in the burns, granite outcroppings. After the rough terrain there was a double
 fence\emdash each unit sixteen meters high, a kilometer between.
\par Mme. Couloc returned to Aberdeen, left her maids at the hotel, flew to Seattle where she bought tough camping clothes, a rope and grappling hook, a light pack, concentrated food and a compass. A map
 of the preserve was easy to obtain. They were sold as souvenirs.
\par Then she went fishing in the Straits of Juan de Fuca, staying at Neah Bay. To the south towered the Olympics, remote snow caps.
\par For three days it rained; five days Mme. Couloc fished with a 
guide. On the ninth day she went fishing alone. The next morning, the Federated Coast Guard picked up her overturned boat off Tatoosh Light. By that time she was nineteen kilometers south of Sequim, two kilometers inside the prohibited area which surround
e
d the fences. She slept all day in a spruce thicket. Moonlight helped her that night, but it took the entire night for her to come within sight of the fence. That day she crouched in a tangle of Oregon grape bushes, saw two tripod-legged robot patrols pas
s
 on the other side of the fence. At nightfall she moved forward, waited for a patrol to pass and go out of sight. The grapple and rope took her over the top. The kilometer between fences was cleared of trees and underbrush. She crossed it swiftly, scaled 
the final barrier.
\par The robotics patrols had counted too heavily on the forbidding terrain and they had not figured a psychotic woman into their plans.
\par Two kilometers inside the preserve, Mme. Couloc found a cedar copse in which to hide. Her heart racing, she crouched in the copse, waiting for the dawn in which to find }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 her dog.}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  There were scratches on her face, hands and legs; her clothes were torn. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 But she was inside!}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par Several times that night she had to dry her perspiring palms against her khaki hiking trousers. Toward morning, she fell asleep on the cold ground. Bess and Eagle found her there just after dawn.
\par Mme. Couloc awoke to the scraping of a warm, damp tongue against her cheek. For a moment, she thought it was her dead }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Coco.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
 Then she realized where she was.
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 And the beautiful dogs!}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par She threw her arms around Bess, who was as starved for human affection as was Mme. Couloc.
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Oh, you beautifuls!}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par The robotics patrol found them there shortly before noon. The robots were counting dogs with the aid of the tiny transmitters they had imbedded in the flesh of each animal. Mme. Couloc had been waiting for nightfall in which to escape with a dog.
\par Bess and Eagle ran from the robots. Mme. Couloc screamed and raged as the impersonal mechanicals took her away.
\par That afternoon, Eagle touched noses with a wolf female through the fence separating their enclosures.
\par Although the robots put each dog in isolation, they were too late. And nobody thought to bother with the wolves in their separate preserve.
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 In seven weeks the dog-wolf preserves were emptied by Virus D-D. Mme. Couloc was sent to a mental hospital in spite of the pleas of an expensive lawyer. The news services made much of Senator Nathal
\rquote s note which had been found in her pocket.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Earth officials sent a contrite message 
to Vega. It was understood, said the message, that one Dr. Varley Trent had given Earth dogs to a Vegan bio-physicist. Were there, by any chance, some dogs still alive?
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Back came the Vegan reply: }{
\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 We have no dogs. We do not know the present whereabouts of Dr. Trent.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Trent\rquote 
s ship came out of hyper-drive with Vega large in the screens. The sun\rquote s flaming prominences were clearly visible. At eight hundred thousand kilometers, he increased magnification, began scanning for the planet. Instead, he picked up a Vega
n guard ship arrowing toward him. The Vegan was only six thousand kilometers off when it launched a torpedo. The proximity explosion cut off Trent\rquote 
s quick leap for the transmitter to give his identity. The ship buckled and rocked. Emergency doors slammed, 
air hissed, warning lights came on, bells clanged. Trent scrambled to the only lifeboat remaining in his section. The tiny escape craft was still serviceable, although its transmitter was cracked open.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
He kept the lifeboat in the shadow of his ship\rquote s wreckage as long as he could, then dove for the Vegan planet which loomed at two o\rquote 
clock on his screen. As soon as his driver tubes came alight, the Vegan sped after him. Trent pushed the little boat to its limit, but the pursuer still gained. They were too close to the planet now for the Vegan to use another torpedo.
\par The lifeboat screamed into the thin edge of the atmosphere. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Too fast!}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
 The air-cooling unit howled with the overload. A rear surface control flared red, melted, fused. Trent had time to fire the eme
rgency nose rockets, cut in automatic pilot before he blacked out. The ship dived, partly out of control, nose rockets still firing. Relays clicked\emdash }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 full alarm!}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 \emdash circuits designed to guard human life in an emergency came alive. Some worked, some had been destroyed.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
Somewhere, he could hear running water. It was dark where he was, or perhaps lighted by a faint redness. His eyelids were stuck tightly. He could feel folds of cloth around him. A parachute! The robot controls of the lifeboat had ejected him in the
 chute-seat as a last resort.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
Trent tried to move. His muscles refused to obey. He could sense numbness in his hips, a tingling loss of specific perception in his arms.
\par Then he heard it\emdash the baying of a hound\emdash far and clear. It was a sound he had never again expected to hear. The bugling note was repeated. It reminded him of frosty nights on Earth, following Bess and Eagle and\'85
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 The baying of a hound!}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par Panic swept through him. The hound mustn\rquote t find him! He was Earth-human, loaded with deadly virus!
\par Straining at his cheek muscle, Trent managed to open one eye, saw that it was not dark, but a kind of yellow twilight under the folds of the parachute. His eyelids had been clotted with blood.
\par Now he could hear running feet, a hound\rquote s eager sniffing.
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Please keep him away from me!}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  he begged.
\par An edge of the chute stirred. Now there was an eager whining. Something crept toward him under the cloth.
\par \'93Go away!\'94 he croaked.
\par Through the blurred vision of his one eye, Trent saw a brown and white head\emdash very like Eagle\rquote s. It bent toward something. With a sick feeling, Trent realized that the }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 something}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  was one of his own outstretched, virus-filled hands. He saw a pink tongue come out, lick the hand, but could not feel it. He tried to move and unconsciousness overwhelmed him. One la
st thought flitted through his mind before the darkness came\emdash 
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 \'93Each man kills the thing he\'85\'94}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 There was a bed beneath him\emdash 
soft, sleep-lulling. In one part of his mind he knew a long time had passed. There had been hands, needles, wheeled carts taking him pl
aces, liquids in his mouth, tubes in his veins. He opened his eyes. Green walls, glaring white sunshine partially diffused by louvre shutters, a glimpse of blue-green hills outside.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 \'93You are feeling better?\'94
 The voice had the peculiar whistling aspiration of the Vegan vocals.
\par Trent shifted his gaze to the right. Ger! The Vegan stood beside the bed, deceptively Earth-human in appearance. His shutter-like eye membranes were opened wide, the double crest of feathery hair retracted. He wore a yellow robe belted at the waist.

\par \'93How long\'85\'94
\par The Vegan put a seven-fingered hand on Trent\rquote s wrist, felt the pulse. \'93Yes, you are feeling much better. You have been very ill for almost four of your months.\'94
\par \'93Then the dogs are all dead,\'94 said Trent, his voice flat.
\par \'93Dead?\'94 Ger\rquote s eye membranes flicked closed, opened.
\par \'93I killed them,\'94 said Trent \'93My body\rquote s loaded with dormant virus.\'94
\par \'93No,\'94 said the Vegan. \'93We gave the dogs an extra white blood cell\emdash more predatory. Your puny virus could not survive it.\'94
\par Trent tried to sit up, but Ger restrained him. \'93Please, Varley. You are not yet recovered.\'94
\par \'93But if the dogs are immune to the virus\'85\'94 He shook his head. \'93Give me a shipload of dogs and you can name your own price.\'94
\par \'93Varley, I did not say dogs are immune. They\'85 are\'85 not like dogs exactly. We cannot give you a shipload of your animals because we do not have them. They were sacrificed in our work.\'94
\par Trent stared at him.
\par \'93I have unfortunate news, my friend. We have made our planet restricted to humans. You may live out your life here, but you may not communicate with your fellows.\'94
\par \'93Is that why your ship fired on me?\'94
\par \'93We thought it was an Earth vessel coming to investigate.\'94
\par \'93But\'85\'94
\par \'93It is regrettable that yourself must be kept here, Varley, but the pride of our peoples is at stake.\'94
\par \'93Pride?\'94
\par The Vegan looked at the floor. \'93We, who have never failed a bio-physical alteration\'85\'94 He shook his head.
\par \'93What happened?\'94
\par The Vegan\rquote s face went blue with embarrassment.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
Trent recalled his first awakening on this planet. \'93When I recovered consciousness I saw a dog. At least I saw its head.\'94
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
Ger pulled a wicker chair close to the bed, sat down. \'93Varley, we tried to combine the best elements of our own }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 progoas}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  and the Earth dogs.\'94

\par \'93Well, wasn\rquote t that what you were supposed to do?\'94
\par \'93Yes, but in the process we lost all of the dogs you sent us and the resultant animals\'85\'94 He shrugged.
\par \'93What are they?\'94
\par \'93They do not have a scaly tail or horned snout. For centuries we have been telling the Universe that sentient pets of the highest quality must show these characteristics of our own }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 progoas.}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 \'94
\par \'93Aren\rquote t the new animals intelligent and loyal? Do they have as good hearing, sense of smell?\'94
\par \'93If anything, these characteristics have been heightened.\'94
\par He paused. \'93You realize, though, that this animal is not truly a dog.\'94
\par \'93Not truly a\'85\'94
\par \'93It\rquote s fully serviceable\'85\'94
\par Trent swallowed. \'93Then you can name your own price.\'94
\par \'93When we made our first cross, the }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 mikeses}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  fertilization process united an open }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 progoa}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  cell with a dog cell, but a series of peculiar linkages occurred. They were not what we had come to expect from our readings and from what you had told us.
\par Trent took a deep breath, exhaled slowly.
\par \'93It was as though the gene pattern of dog characteristics were predatory, tying down tightly even with }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 progoa}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  dominants,\'94 said Ger. \'93Ea
ch time we repeated the process; the same thing occurred. From our knowledge of terrestrial biology, this should not have been. The blood chemistry of our animals is based on the element you call copper. We have not much iron on our planet, but what few o
f your type of animals we had proved to us that the copper-basic was dominant in a }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 mikeses}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  cross. Of course, without a }{
\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 mikeses}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  generator, cells cannot be opened to permit such a cross, but still\'85\'94
\par Trent closed his eyes, opened them. \'93No one else will ever hear what I am about to tell you\'85\'94 He hesitated.
\par Vertical lines of thoughtfulness appeared in the Vegan\rquote s cheeks. \'93Yes?\'94
\par \'93When I was here on the survey trip, I copied the diagram of a }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 mikeses}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  generator. I was able to build a working model on Earth. With it,
 I developed a line of hounds.\'94 He wet his lips with his tongue. \'93We have life on Earth with blood of copper-base chemistry. The common squid of our oceans is one of them.\'94
\par Ger lowered his chin, continued to stare at Trent.
\par \'93With the generator, I linked the canine dominants of my dogs with a recessive of squid.\'94
\par \'93But they could not breed naturally. They\'85\'94
\par \'93Of course not. The hounds I sent you were from a line which had no fathers for six generations. I fertilized them with the generator. They had only the female side, open to the first linkage which presented itself.\'94
\par \'93Why?\'94
\par \'93Because, from my observations of }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 progoas,}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  I knew dogs were superior, but could profit by such a cross. I hoped to make that cross myself.\'94

\par The Vegan looked at the floor. \'93Varley, it pains me, but I am faced with the evidence that your claim is true. However, the pride of my world would never permit this to be known. Perhaps the Elders should reconsider.\'94
\par \'93You know me,\'94 said Trent. \'93You have my word on it.\'94
\par Ger nodded. \'93It is as you say, Varley. I know you.\'94 He preened a feather crest with three fingers. \'93And through knowing you, perhaps I have tempered the pride which rules my world.\'94 He nodded to himself. \'93I, too, will remain silent.\'94
 A subtle Vegan smile flitted across his face, disappeared.
\par Trent recalled the beagle head he had seen under the parachute when he\rquote d recovered consciousness. \'93I\rquote d like to see one of these animals.\'94
\par \'93That can be\'85\'94 Ger was interrupted by the near baying of a pack of hounds. He stood up, flung open the window louvres, returned to support Trent\rquote s head. \'93Look out there, friend Varley.\'94
\par On the blue-green Vegan plain, Trent could see a pack of hounds coursing in pursuit of a herd of runaway }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 ichikas.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
 The hounds had the familiar beagle head, brown and white fur. All had six legs.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\qc \li595\ri595\sb1440\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \b\fs48\lang1049\langfe1049\kerning36\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
{\*\bkmkstart _Passage_for_Piano}{\*\bkmkend _Passage_for_Piano}Passage for Piano
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
Had some cosmic crystal gazer suggested to Margaret Hatchell that she would try to smuggle a concert grand piano onto the colony spaceship, she would have been shocked. Here she was at home in her kitchen on a hot summer after
noon, worried about how to squeeze }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 ounces}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  into her family\rquote s meager weight allowance for the trip\emdash and the piano weighed more than half a 
}{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 ton.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
Before she had married Walter Hatchell, she had been a working nurse-dietician, which made her of some use to the colony group destined for Planet C. But Walter, as the expedition\rquote 
s chief ecologist, was one of the most important cogs in the effort. His field was bionomics: the science of setting up the delicate balance of growing things to support human life on an alien world.
\par Walter was tied to his work at the White Sands base, hadn\rquote t been home to Seattle for a month during this crucial preparation period. This left Margaret with two children and several problems\emdash 
the chief problem being that one of their children was a blind piano prodigy subject to black moods.
\par Margaret glanced at the clock on her kitchen wall: three-thirty, time to start dinner. She wheeled the microfilming cabinet out of her kitchen and down the hall to the music room to get it out of her way. Coming
 into the familiar music room, she suddenly felt herself a hesitant stranger here\emdash almost afraid to look too closely at her favorite wing-back chair, or at her son\rquote 
s concert grand piano, or at the rose pattern rug with afternoon sun streaming dappled gold across it.
\par It was a sensation of unreality\emdash something like the feeling that had caught her the day the colonization board had notified them that the Hatchells had been chosen.
\par \'93We\rquote re going to be pioneers on Planet C,\'94 she whispered. But that made it no more real. She wondered if others among the three hundred and eight chosen colonists felt the same way about moving to a virgin world.
\par In the first days after the selection, when they all had been assembled at White Sands for preliminary instructions, a young astronomer had given a brief lecture.
\par \'93Your sun will be the star Giansar,\'94 he had said, and his voice had echoed in the barnlike hall as he pointed to the star on the chart. \'93In the tail of constellation Dragon. Your ship will travel sixteen years on sub-ma
cro drive to make the passage from Earth. You already know, of course, that you will pass this time in sleep-freeze, and it\rquote ll feel just like one night to you. Giansar has a more orange light than our sun, and it\rquote 
s somewhat cooler. However, Planet C is closer to its sun, and this means your climate will average out warmer than we experience here.\'94
\par Margaret had tried to follow the astronomer\rquote s words closely, just as she had done in the other lectures, but only the high points remained from all of them: orang
e light, warmer climate, less moisture, conserve weight in what you take along, seventy-five pounds of private luggage allowed for each adult, forty pounds for children to age fourteen\'85
\par Now, standing in her music room, Margaret felt that it must have been some other person who had listened to those lectures. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 I should be excited and happy,}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  she thought. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Why do I feel so sad?}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par At thirty-five, Margaret Hatchell looked an indeterminate mid-twenty with a good figure, a graceful walk. Her brown hair carried reddish lights. The dark eyes, full mouth and firm chin combined to give an impression of hidden fire.
\par She rubbed a hand along the curved edge of the piano lid, felt the dent where the instrument had hit the door when they\rquote d moved here to Seattle from Denver. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 How long ago?}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  she asked herself. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Eight years? Yes\'85 it was the year after Grandfather Maurice Hatchell died\'85
 after playing his final concert with this very piano.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par Through the open back windows she could hear her nine-year-old, Rita, filling the summer afternoon with a }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 discussion}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
 of the strange insects to be discovered on Planet C. Rita\rquote s audience consisted of non-colonist playmates overawed by the fame of their companion. Rita was referring to their colony world as \'93Ritelle,\'94 the name she had submitted to the S
urvey and Exploration Service.
\par Margaret thought: }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 If they choose Rita\rquote s name we\rquote ll never hear the end of it\'85 literally!}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par Realization that an entire planet could be named for her daughter sent Margaret\rquote s thoughts reeling off on a new tangent. She stood silently in the golden shadows of the music room, one hand on the piano that had belonged to her husband\rquote 
s father, Maurice Hatchell\emdash }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 the}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
 Maurice Hatchell of concert fame. For the first time, Margaret saw something of what the news service people had been telling her just that morning\emdash that her family and all the other colonists were \'93chosen people,\'94
 and for this reason their lives were of tremendous interest to everyone on Earth.
\par She noted her son\rquote s bat-eye radar box and its shoulder harness atop the piano. That me
ant David was somewhere around the house. He never used the box in the familiarity of his home where memory served in place of the sight he had lost. Seeing the box there prompted Margaret to move the microfilming cabinet aside where David would not trip 
o
ver it if he came to the music room to practice. She listened, wondering if David was upstairs trying the lightweight electronic piano that had been built for him to take on the spaceship. There was no hint of his music in the soft sounds of the afternoon
, but then he could have turned the sound low.
\par Thinking of David brought to her mind the boy\rquote s tantrum that had ended the news-film session just before lunch. The chief reporter\emdash }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 What was his name? Bonaudi?}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 \emdash had asked how they intended to dispose of the concert grand piano. She could still hear the awful discord as David had crashed his fists onto the keyboard. He had leaped up, dashed from the room
\emdash a dark little figure full of impotent fury.
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Twelve is such an emotional age,}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  she told herself.
\par Margaret decided that her sadness was the same as David\rquote s. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 It\rquote s the parting with beloved possessions\'85 it\rquote s the certain knowledge that we\rquote ll never see these things again
\'85 that all we\rquote ll have will be films and lightweight substitutes.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  A sensation of terrible longing filled her. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
Never again to feel the homely comfort of so many things that spell family tradition: the wing-back chair Walter and I bought when we furnished our first house, the sewing cabinet that great-great grandmother Chrisman brought from Ohio, the oversize do
uble bed built specially to accommodate Walter\rquote s long frame\'85}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par Abruptly, she turned away from the piano, went back to the kitchen. It was a white tile room with black fixtures, a laboratory kitchen cluttered now with debris of packing. Margaret pushed aside 
her recipe files on the counter beside the sink, being careful not to disturb the yellow scrap of paper that marked where she\rquote d stopped microfilming them. The sink was still piled with her mother\rquote 
s Spode china that was being readied for the space journey. Cups and saucers would weigh three and a half pounds in their special packing. Margaret resumed washing the dishes, seating them in the delicate webs of the lightweight box.
\par The wall phone beside her came alive to the operator\rquote s face. \'93Hatchell residence?\'94
\par Margaret lifted her dripping hands from the sink, nudged the call switch with her elbow. \'93Yes?\'94
\par \'93On your call to Walter Hatchell at White Sands: he still is not available. Shall I try again in twenty minutes?\'94
\par \'93Please do.\'94
\par The operator\rquote s face faded from t
he screen. Margaret nudged off the switch, resumed washing. The newsfilm group had shot several pictures of her working at the sink that morning. She wondered how she and her family would appear on the film. The reporter had called Rita a \'93
budding entomologist\'94 and had referred to David as \'93the blind piano prodigy\emdash one of the few victims of the }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 drum}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
 virus brought back from the uninhabitable Planet A-4.\'94
\par Rita came in from the yard. She was a lanky nine-year-old, a precocious extrovert with large blue eyes that looked on the world as her own private problem waiting to be solved.
\par \'93I am desperately ravenous,\'94 she announced. \'93When do we eat?\'94
\par \'93When it\rquote s ready,\'94 Margaret said. She noted with a twinge of exasperation that Rita had acquired a torn cobweb on her blonde hair and a smudge of dirt across her left cheek.
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Why should a little girl be fascinated by bugs?}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  Margaret asked herself. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 It\rquote 
s not natural.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  She said: \'93How\rquote d you get the cobweb in your hair?\'94
\par \'93Oh, succotash!\'94 Rita put a hand to her hair, rubbed away the offending web.
\par \'93How?\'94 repeated Margaret.
\par \'93Mother! If one is to acquire knowledge of the insect world, one inevitably encounters such things! I am just dismayed that I tore the web.\'94
\par \'93Well, I\rquote m dismayed that you\rquote re filthy dirty. Go upstairs and wash so you\rquote ll look presentable when we get the call through to your father.\'94
\par Rita turned away.
\par \'93And weigh yourself,\'94 called Margaret. \'93I have to turn in our family\rquote s weekly weight aggregate tomorrow.\'94
\par Rita skipped out of the room.
\par Margaret felt certain she had heard a muttered \'93parents!\'94 The sound of the child\rquote s footsteps diminished up the stairs. A door slammed on the second floor. Presently, Rita clattered back down the stairs. She ran into the kitchen. \'93
Mother, you\'85\'94
\par \'93You haven\rquote t had time to get clean.\'94 Margaret spoke without turning.
\par \'93It\rquote s David,\'94 said Rita. \'93He looks peculiar and he says he doesn\rquote t want any supper.\'94
\par Margaret turned from the sink, her features set to hide the gripping of fear. She knew from experience that Rita\rquote s \'93peculiar\'94 could be anything\'85 literally anything.
\par \'93How do you mean }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 peculiar,}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  dear?\'94
\par \'93He\rquote s so pale. He looks like he doesn\rquote t have any blood.\'94
\par For some reason, this brought to Margaret\rquote s mind a memory picture of David at the age of three\emdash a still figure in a hospital bed, flesh-colored feeding t
ube protruding from his nose, and his skin as pale as death with his breathing so quiet it was difficult to detect the chest movements.
\par She dried her hands on a dishtowel. \'93Let\rquote s go have a look. He\rquote s probably just tired.\'94
\par David was stretched out on his bed, one arm thrown across his eyes. The shades were drawn and the room was in semi-darkness. It took a moment for Margaret\rquote s eyes to adjust to the gloom, and she thought: }{
\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Do the blind seek darkness because it gives them the advantage over those with sight?}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  S
he crossed to the bedside. The boy was a small, dark-haired figure\emdash his father\rquote s coloring. The chin was narrow and the mouth a firm line like his grandfather Hatchell\rquote s. Right now he looked thin and defenseless\'85
 and Rita was right: terribly pale.
\par Margaret adopted her best hospital manner, lifted David\rquote s arm from his face, took his pulse.
\par \'93Don\rquote t you feel well, Davey?\'94 she asked.
\par \'93I wish you wouldn\rquote t call me that,\'94 he said. \'93That\rquote s a baby name.\'94 His narrow features were set, sullen.
\par She took a short, quick breath. \'93Sorry. I forgot. Rita says you don\rquote t want any supper.\'94
\par Rita came in from the hallway. \'93He looks positively infirm, mother.\'94
\par \'93Does she have to keep pestering me?\'94 demanded David.
\par \'93I thought I heard the phone chime,\'94 said Margaret \'93Will you go check, Rita?\'94
\par \'93You\rquote re being offensively obvious,\'94 said Rita. \'93If you don\rquote t want me in here, just say so.\'94 She turned, walked slowly out of the room.
\par \'93Do you hurt someplace, David?\'94 asked Margaret.
\par \'93I just feel tired,\'94 he muttered. \'93Why can\rquote t you leave me alone?\'94
\par Margaret stared down at him\emdash caught as she had been so many times by his resemblance to his grandfather Hatchell. It was a resemblance made uncanny when the boy sat down at the piano: that same intense vibrancy\'85
 the same musical genius that had made Hatchell a name to fill concert halls. And she thought: }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Perhaps it\rquote 
s because the Steinway belonged to his grandfather that he feels so badly about parting with it. The piano\rquote s a symbol of the talent he inherited.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par She patted her son\rquote s hand, sat down beside him on the bed, \'93Is something troubling you, David?\'94
\par His features contorted, and he whirled away from her. \'93Go away!\'94 he muttered. \'93Just leave me alone!\'94
\par Margaret sighed, felt inadequate. She wished desperately that Walter were not tied to the work at the launchin
g site. She felt a deep need of her husband at this moment. Another sigh escaped her. She knew what she had to do. The rules for colonists were explicit: any symptoms at all\emdash even superficial ones\emdash were to get a doctor\rquote 
s attention. She gave David\rquote s hand a final pat, went downstairs to the hall phone, called Dr. Mowery, the medic cleared for colonists in the Seattle area. He said he\rquote d be out in about an hour.
\par Rita came in as Margaret was completing the call, asked: \'93Is David going to die?\'94
\par All the tenseness and aggravation of the day came out in Margaret\rquote s reply: \'93Don\rquote t be such a beastly little fool!\'94
\par Immediately, she was sorry. She stooped, gathered Rita to her, crooned apologies.
\par \'93It\rquote s all right, mother,\'94 Rita said. \'93I realize you\rquote re overwrought.\'94
\par Filled with contriteness, Margaret went into the kitchen, prepared her daughter\rquote s favorite food: tunafish sandwiches and chocolate milkshakes.
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 I\rquote m getting too jumpy,}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  thought Margaret. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 David\rquote s not really sick. It\rquote 
s the hot weather we\rquote ve had lately and all this tension of getting ready to go.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
 She took a sandwich and milkshake up to the boy, but he still refused to eat. And there was such a pallid sense of defeat about him. A story about someone who had died merely because he gave up the will to live entered her mind and refused to be shaken.

\par She made her way back down to the kitchen, dabbled at the work there until the call to Walter went through. Her husband\rquote s craggy features and deep voice brought the calmness she had been seeking all day.
\par \'93I miss you so much, darling,\'94 she said.
\par \'93It won\rquote t be much longer,\'94 he said. He smiled, leaned to one side, exposing the impersonal wall of a pay booth behind him. He looked tired. \'93How\rquote s my family?\'94
\par She told him about David, saw the worry creep into his eyes. \'93Is the doctor there yet?\'94 he asked.
\par \'93He\rquote s late. He should\rquote ve been here by six and it\rquote s half past.\'94
\par \'93Probably busy as a bird dog,\'94 he said. \'93It doesn\rquote t really sound as though David\rquote s actually sick. Just upset more likely\'85 the excitement of leaving. Call me as soon as the doctor tells you what\rquote s wrong.\'94
\par \'93I will. I think he\rquote s just upset over leaving your father\rquote s piano behind.\'94
\par \'93David knows it\rquote s not that we want to leave these things.\'94 A grin brightened his features. \'93Lord! Imagine taking that thing on the ship! Dr. Charlesworthy would flip!\'94
\par She smiled. \'93Why don\rquote t you suggest it.\'94
\par \'93You\rquote re trying to get me in trouble with the old man!\'94
\par \'93How\rquote re things going, dear?\'94 she asked.
\par His face sobered. He sighed. \'93I had to talk to poor Smythe\rquote s widow today. She came out to pick up his things. It was rather trying. The old man was afraid she might still want to come along\'85 but no\'85\'94 He shook his head.
\par \'93Do you have his replacement yet?\'94
\par \'93Yes. Young fellow from Lebanon. Name\rquote s Teryk. His wife\rquote s a cute little thing.\'94 Walter looked past her at the kitchen. \'93Look\rquote s like you\rquote re getting things in order. Decided yet what you\rquote re taking?\'94
\par \'93Some of the things. I wish I could make decisions like you do. I\rquote ve definitely decided to take mother\rquote s Spode china cups and saucers and the sterling silver\'85 for Rita when she gets married\'85
 and the Utrillo your father bought in Lisbon\'85 and I\rquote ve weeded my jewelry down to about two pounds of basics\'85 and I\rquote m not going to worry about cosmetics since you say we can make our own when we\'85\'94
\par Rita ran into the kitchen, pushed in beside Margaret. \'93Hello, father.\'94
\par \'93Hi, punkin head. What\rquote ve you been up to?\'94
\par \'93I\rquote ve been cataloging my insect collection and filling it out. Mother\rquote s going to help me film the glassed-in specimens as soon as I\rquote m ready. They\rquote re so }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 heavy}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 !\'94
\par \'93How\rquote d you wangle her agreement to get that close to your bugs?\'94
\par \'93Father! They\rquote re not bugs; they\rquote re entomological specimens.\'94
\par \'93They\rquote re bugs to your mother, honey. Now, if\'85\'94
\par \'93Father! There\rquote s one other thing. I told Raul\emdash he\rquote s the new boy down the block\emdash I told him today about those hawklike insects on Ritelle that\'85\'94
\par \'93They\rquote re not insects, honey; they\rquote re adapted amphibians.\'94
\par She frowned. \'93But Spencer\rquote s report distinctly says that they\rquote re chitinous and they\'85\'94
\par \'93Whoa down! You should\rquote ve read the technical report, the one I showed you when I was home last month. These critters have a copper-base metabolism, and they\rquote re closely allied to a common fish on the planet.\'94
\par \'93Oh\'85 Do you think I\rquote d better branch out into marine biology?\'94
\par \'93One thing at a time, honey. Now\'85\'94
\par \'93Have we set the departure date yet, father? I can hardly wait to get to work there.\'94
\par \'93It\rquote s not definite yet, honey. But we should know any day. Now, let me talk to your mother.\'94
\par Rita pulled back.
\par Walter smiled at his wife. \'93What\rquote re we raising there?\'94
\par \'93I wish I knew.\'94
\par \'93Look\'85 don\rquote t worry about David. It\rquote s been nine years since\'85 since he recovered from that virus. All the tests show that he was completely cured.\'94
\par And she thought: }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Yes\'85 cured\emdash except for the little detail of no optic nerves.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  She forced a smile \'93I know you\rquote re probably right. It
\rquote ll turn out to be something simple\'85 and we\rquote ll laugh about this when\'85\'94 The front doorbell chimed. \'93That\rquote s probably the doctor now.\'94
\par \'93Call me when you find out,\'94 said Walter.
\par Margaret heard Rita\rquote s footsteps running toward the door.
\par \'93I\rquote ll sign off, sweet,\'94 she said. She blew a kiss to her husband. \'93I love you.\'94
\par Walter held up two fingers in a victory sign, winked. \'93Same here. Chin up.\'94
\par They broke the connection.
\par Dr. Mowery was a grey-haired, flint-faced bustler\emdash addicted to the nodding head and the knowin
g (but unintelligible) murmur. One big hand held a grey instrument bag. He had a pat on the head for Rita, a firm handshake for Margaret, and he insisted on seeing David alone.
\par \'93Mothers just clutter up the atmosphere for a doctor,\'94 he said, and he winked to take the sting from his words.
\par Margaret sent Rita to her room, waited in the upstairs hall. There were one hundred and six flower panels on the wallpaper between the door to David\rquote s room and the corner of the hall. She was moving on to count the rungs in
 the balustrade when the doctor emerged from David\rquote s room. He closed the door softly behind him, nodding to himself.
\par She waited.
\par \'93Mmmmmm-hmmmmm,\'94 said Dr. Mowery. He cleared his throat.
\par \'93Is it anything serious?\'94 asked Margaret.
\par \'93Not sure.\'94 He walked to the head of the stairs. \'93How long\rquote s the boy been acting like that\'85 listless and upset?\'94
\par Margaret swallowed a lump in her throat. \'93He\rquote s been acting differently ever since they delivered the electronic piano\'85 the one that\rquote s going to substitute for his grandfather\rquote s Steinway. Is that what you mean?\'94
\par \'93Differently?\'94
\par \'93Rebellious, short-tempered\'85 wanting to be alone.\'94
\par \'93I suppose there\rquote s not the remotest possibility of his taking the big piano,\'94 said the doctor.
\par \'93Oh, my goodness\'85 it must weigh all of a thousand pounds,\'94 said Margaret. \'93The electronic instrument is only twenty-one pounds.\'94 She cleared her throat. \'93Is it worry about the piano, doctor?\'94
\par \'93Possibly.\'94 Dr. Mowery nodded, took the first step down the stairs. \'93It doesn\rquote t appear to be anything organic that my instruments can find. I\rquote 
m going to have Dr. Linquist and some others look in on David tonight. Dr. Linquist is our chief psychiatrist. Meanwhile, I\rquote d try to get the boy to eat something.\'94
\par She crossed to Dr. Mowery\rquote s side at the head of the stairs. \'93I\rquote m a nurse,\'94 she said. \'93You can tell me if it\rquote s something serious that\'85\'94
\par He shifted his bag to his right hand, patted her arm. \'93Now don\rquote t you worry, my dear. The colonization group is fortunate to have a musical genius in its roster. We\rquote re not going to let anything happen to him.\'94
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
Dr. Linquist had the round face and cynical eyes of a fallen cherub. His voice surged out of him in waves that flowed over the listener and towed him under. The psychiatrist and colleagues were with David until almost ten p.m. Then Dr. Li
nquist dismissed the others, came down to the music room where Margaret was waiting. He sat on the piano bench, hands gripping the lip of wood beside him.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Margaret occupied her wing-back chair
\emdash the one piece of furniture she knew she would miss more than any other thing in the house. Long usage had worn contours in the chair that exactly complemented her, and its rough fabric upholstery held the soothing texture of familiarity.
\par The night outside the screened windows carried a sonorous sawing of crickets.
\par \'93We can say definitely that it\rquote s a fixation about this piano,\'94 said Linquist. He slapped his palms onto his knees. \'93Have you ever thought of leaving the boy behind?\'94
\par \'93Doctor!\'94
\par \'93Thought I\rquote d ask.\'94
\par \'93Is it }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 that}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  serious with Davey?\'94 she asked. \'93I mean, after all\'85 we\rquote re all of us going to miss things.\'94
 She rubbed the chair arm. \'93But good heavens, we\'85\'94
\par \'93I\rquote m not much of a musician,\'94 said Linquist. \'93I\rquote m told by the critics, though, that your boy already has concert stature\'85 that he\rquote s being deliberately held back now to avoid piling confusion on confusion\'85
 I mean with your leaving so soon and all.\'94 The psychiatrist tugged at his lower lip. \'93You realize, of course, that your boy worships the memory of his grandfather?\'94
\par \'93He\rquote s seen all the old stereos, listened to all the tapes,\'94 said Margaret. \'93He was only four when grandfather died, but David remembers everything they ever did together. It was\'85\'94 She shrugged.
\par \'93David has identified his inherited talent with his inherited piano,\'94 said Linquist. \'93He\'85\'94
\par \'93But pianos can be replaced,\'94 said Margaret. \'93Couldn\rquote t one of our colony carpenters or cabinetmakers duplicate\'85\'94
\par \'93Ah, no,\'94 said Linquist. \'93Not duplicate. It would not be the piano of Maurice Hatchell. You see, your boy is overly conscious that he inherited musical genius from his grandfather\'85 just as he inherited the piano. He\rquote 
s tied the two together. He believes that if\emdash not consciously, you understand? But he believes, nonetheless, that if he loses the piano he loses the talent. And there you have a problem more critical than you might suspect.\'94
\par She shook her head. \'93But children get over these\'85\'94
\par \'93He\rquote s not a child, Mrs. Hatchell. Perhaps I should say he\rquote s not }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 just}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  a child. He is that sensitive thing we call }{
\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 genius.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  This is a delicate state that goes sour all too easily.\'94
\par She felt her mouth go dry. \'93What are you trying to tell me?\'94
\par \'93I don\rquote t want to alarm you without cause, Mrs. Hatchell. But the truth is\emdash and this is the opinion of all of us\emdash that if your boy is deprived of his musical outlet\'85 well, he could die.\'94
\par She paled. \'93Oh, no! He\'85\'94
\par \'93Such things happen, Mrs. Hatchell. There are therapeutic procedures we could use, of course, but I\rquote m not sure we have the time. They\rquote re expecting to set your departure date momentarily. Therapy }{
\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 could}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  take years.\'94
\par \'93But David\rquote s\'85\'94
\par \'93David is precocious and over emotional,\'94 said Linquist. \'93He\rquote s invested much more than is healthy in his music. His blindness accounts for part of that, but over and above the fact of blindness there\rquote 
s his need for musical expression. In a genius such as David this is akin to one of the basic drives of life itself.\'94
\par \'93We couldn\rquote t leave him,\'94 she Whispered. \'93We just couldn\rquote t. You don\rquote t understand. We\rquote re such a close family that we\'85\'94
\par \'93Then perhaps you should step aside, let some other family have your\'85\'94
\par \'93It would kill Walter\'85 my husband,\'94 she said. \'93He\rquote s lived for this chance.\'94 She shook her head. \'93Anyway, I\rquote m not sure we could back out now. Walter\rquote s assistant, Dr. Smythe, was killed in a \rquote 
copter crash near Phoenix last week. They already have a replacement, but I\rquote m sure you know how important Walter\rquote s function is to the colony\rquote s success.\'94
\par Linquist nodded. \'93I read about Smythe, but I failed to make the obvious association here.\'94
\par \'93I\rquote m not important to the colony,\'94 she said. \'93Nor the children, really. But the ecologists\emdash the success of our entire effort hangs on them. Without Walter\'85\'94
\par \'93Well just have to solve it then,\'94 he said. He got to his feet. \'93We\rquote ll be back tomorrow for another look at David, Mrs. Hatchell. Dr. Mowery made him take some amino pills and then gave him a sedative. He sh
ould sleep right through the night. If there\rquote re any complications\emdash although there shouldn\rquote t be\emdash you can reach me at this number.\'94 He pulled a card from his wallet, gave it to her. \'93It is too bad about the weight problem. I
\rquote m sure it would solve everything if he could just take this monster with him.\'94 Linquist patted the piano lid. \'93Well\'85 good night.\'94
\par When Linquist had gone, Margaret leaned against the front door, pressed her forehead against the cool wood. \'93No,\'94 she whispered. \'93No\'85 no\'85 no\'85\'94 Presently, she wen
t to the living room phone, placed a call to Walter. It was ten twenty p.m. The call went right through, proving that he had been waiting for it. Margaret noted the deep worry creases in her husband\rquote 
s forehead, longed to reach out, touch them, smooth them.
\par \'93What is it, Margaret?\'94 he asked. \'93Is David all right?\'94
\par \'93Dear, it\rquote s\'85\'94 she swallowed. \'93It\rquote s about the piano. Your father\rquote s Steinway.\'94
\par \'93The }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 piano?}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 \'94
\par \'93The doctors have been here all evening up to a few minutes ago examining David. The psychiatrist says if David loses the piano he may lose his\'85 his music\'85 his\'85 and if he loses that he could die.\'94
\par Walter blinked. \'93Over a piano? Oh, now, surely there must be some\'85\'94
\par She told him everything Dr. Linquist had said.
\par \'93The boy\rquote s so much like dad,\'94 said Walter. \'93Dad once threw the philharmonic into an uproar because his piano bench was a half inch too low. Good Lord! I\'85 What\rquote d Linquist say we could do?\'94
\par \'93He said if we could take the piano it\rquote d solve\'85\'94
\par \'93That concert grand? The damn\rquote  thing must weigh over a thousand pounds. That\rquote s more than three times what our whole family is allowed in private luggage.\'94
\par \'93I know. I\rquote m almost at my wits\rquote  ends. All this turmoil Of deciding what\rquote s to go and now\'85 David.\'94
\par \'93To go!\'94 barked Walter. \'93Good Lord! What with worrying about David I almost forgot: our departure date was set just tonight.\'94 He glanced at his watch. \'93Blast off is fourteen days and six hours away\emdash 
give or take a few minutes. The old man said\'85\'94
\par \'93Fourteen days!\'94
\par \'93Yes, but }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 you}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  have only eight days. That\rquote s the colony assembly date. The pickup crews will be around to get your luggage on the afternoon of
\'85\'94
\par \'93Walter! I haven\rquote t even decided what to\'85\'94 She broke off. \'93I was sure we had at least another month. You told me yourself that we\'85\'94
\par \'93I know. But fuel production came out ahead of schedule, and the long range weather forecast is favorable. And it\rquote s part of the psychology not to drag out leave taking. This way the shock of abruptness cuts everything clean.\'94
\par \'93But what\rquote re we going to do about David?\'94 She chewed her lower lip.
\par \'93Is he awake?\'94
\par \'93I don\rquote t think so. They gave him a sedative.\'94
\par Walter frowned. \'93I want to talk to David first thing in the morning. I\rquote ve been neglecting him lately because of all the work here, but\'85\'94
\par \'93He understands, Walter.\'94
\par \'93I\rquote m sure he does, but I want to see him for myself. I only wish I had the time to come home, but things are pretty frantic here right now.\'94 He shook his head. \'93I just don\rquote 
t see how that diagnosis could be right. All this fuss over a piano!\'94
\par \'93Walter\'85 you\rquote re not attached to things. With you it\rquote s people and ideas.\'94 She lowered her eyes, fought back tears. \'93But some people can grow to love inanimate objects, too\'85 things that mean comfort and security.\'94
 She swallowed.
\par He shook his head. \'93I guess I just don\rquote t understand. We\rquote ll work out something, though. Depend on it.\'94
\par Margaret forced a smile. \'93I know you will, dear.\'94
\par \'93Now that we have the departure date it may blow the whole thing right out of his mind,\'94 Walter said.
\par \'93Perhaps you\rquote re right.\'94
\par He glanced at his wristwatch. \'93I have to sign off now. Got some experiments running.\'94 He winked. \'93I miss my family.\'94
\par \'93So do I,\'94 she whispered.
\par In the morning there was a call from Prester Charlesworthy, colony director. His face came onto the phone screen in Margaret\rquote s kitchen just as she finished dishing up breakfast for
 Rita. David was still in bed. And Margaret had told neither of them about the departure date.
\par Charlesworthy was a man of skinny features, nervous mannerisms. There was a bumpkin look about him until you saw the incisive stare of the pale blue eyes.
\par \'93Forgive me for bothering you like this, Mrs. Hatchell,\'94 he said.
\par She forced herself to calmness. \'93No bother. We were expecting a call from Walter this morning. I thought this was it.\'94
\par \'93I\rquote ve just been talking to Walter,\'94 said Charlesworthy. \'93He\rquote s been telling me about David. We had a report first thing this morning from Dr. Linquist.\'94
\par After a sleepless night with periodic cat-footed trips to look in on David, Margaret felt her nerves jangling out to frayed helplessness. She was primed to leap at the worst interpretations that entered her mind. \'93You\rquote 
re putting us out of the colony group!\'94 she blurted. \'93You\rquote re getting another ecologist to\'85\'94
\par \'93Oh, no, Mrs. Hatchell!\'94 Dr. Charlesworthy took a deep breath. \'93I know it must seem odd\emdash my calling you like this\emdash but our little group will be alone on a very alien world, very dependent upon each other for almost ten years\'85
 until the next ship gets there. We\rquote ve got to work together on everything. I sincerely want to help you.\'94
\par \'93I\rquote m sorry,\'94 she said. \'93But I didn\rquote t get much sleep last night.\'94
\par \'93I quite understand. Believe me, I\rquote d like nothing better than to be able to send Walter home to you right now.\'94 Charlesworthy shrugged. \'93But that\rquote s out of the question. With poor Smythe dead there\rquote 
s a terribly heavy load on Walter\rquote s shoulders. Without him, we might even have to abort this attempt.\'94
\par Margaret wet her lips with her tongue. \'93Dr. Charlesworthy, is there any possibility at all that we could\'85 I mean\'85 the piano\emdash take it on the ship?\'94
\par \'93Mrs. Hatchell!\'94 Charlesworthy pulled back from his screen. \'93It must weigh half a ton!\'94
\par She sighed. \'93I called the moving company first thing this morning\emdash the company that moved the piano here into this house. They checked their records. It weighs fourteen hundred and eight pounds.\'94
\par \'93Out of the question! Why\'85 we\rquote ve had to eliminate high priority technical equipment that doesn\rquote t weigh half that much!\'94
\par \'93I guess I\rquote m desperate,\'94 she said. \'93I keep thinking over what Dr. Linquist said about David dying if\'85\'94
\par \'93Of course,\'94 said Charlesworthy. \'93That\rquote s why I called you. I want you to know what we\rquote ve done. We dispatched Hector Torres to the Steinway factory this morning. Hector is one of the cabinetmakers we\rquote 
ll have in the colony. The Steinway people have generously consented to show him all of their construction secrets so Hector can build an exact duplicate of this piano\emdash 
correct in all details. Philip Jackson, one of our metallurgists, will be following Hector this afternoon for the same reason. I\rquote m sure that when you tell David this it\rquote ll completely resolve all his fears.\'94
\par Margaret blinked back tears. \'93Dr. Charlesworthy\'85 I don\rquote t know how to thank you.\'94
\par \'93Don\rquote t thank me at all, my dear. We\rquote re a team\'85 we pull together.\'94 He nodded. \'93Now, one other thing: a favor you can do for me.\'94
\par \'93Certainly.\'94
\par \'93Try not to worry Walter too much this week if you can. He\rquote s discovered a mutation that may permit us to cross earth plants with ones already growing on Planet C. He\rquote 
s running final tests this week with dirt samples from C. These are crucial tests, Mrs. Hatchell. They could cut several years off the initial stage of setting up a new life-cycle balance.\'94
\par \'93Of course,\'94 she said. \'93I\rquote m sorry that I\'85\'94
\par \'93Don\rquote t you be sorry. And don\rquote t you worry. The boy\rquote s only twelve. Time heals all things.\'94
\par \'93I\rquote m sure it\rquote ll work out,\'94 she said.
\par \'93Excellent,\'94 said Charlesworthy. \'93That\rquote s the spirit. Now, you call on me for any help you may need\'85 day or night. We\rquote re a team. We have to pull together.\'94
\par They broke the connection. Margaret stood in front of the phone, facing the blank screen.
\par Rita spoke from the kitchen table behind her. \'93What\rquote d he say about the departure date?\'94
\par \'93It\rquote s been set, dear.\'94 Margaret turned. \'93We have to be with Daddy at White Sands in eight days.\'94
\par \'93Whooopeee!\'94 Rita leaped to her feet, upsetting her breakfast dishes. \'93We\rquote re going! We\rquote re going!\'94
\par \'93Rita!\'94
\par But Rita already was dashing out of the room, out of the house. Her \'93Eight days!\'94 echoed back from the front hall.
\par Margaret stepped to the kitchen door. \'93Rita!\'94
\par Her daughter ran back down the hall. \'93I\rquote m going to tell the kids!\'94
\par \'93You will calm down right now. You\rquote re making enough noise to\'85\'94
\par \'93I heard her.\'94 It was David at the head of the stairs. He came down slowly, guiding himself by the bannister. His face looked white as eggshell, and there was a dragging hesitancy to his steps.
\par Margaret took a deep breath, told him about Dr. Charlesworthy\rquote s plan to replace the piano.
\par David stopped two steps above her, head down. When she had finished, he said: \'93It won\rquote t be the same.\'94 He stepped around her, went into the music room. There was a slumped finality to his figure.
\par Margaret whirled back into the kitchen. Angry determination flamed in her. She heard Rita\rquote s slow footsteps following, spoke without turning: \'93Rita, how much weight can you cut from your luggage?\'94
\par \'93Mother!\'94
\par \'93We\rquote re going to take that piano!\'94 snapped Margaret.
\par Rita came up beside her. \'93But our whole family gets to take only two hundred and thirty pounds! We couldn\rquote t possibly\'85\'94
\par \'93There are three hundred and eight of us in this colonization group,\'94 said Margaret. \'93Every adult is allowed seventy-five pounds, every child under fourteen years gets forty pounds.\'94 She found her kitchen scratch pad, scribbled figures on it. 
\'93If each person donates only four pounds and twelve ounces we can take that piano!\'94 Before she could change her mind, she whirled to the drainboard, swept the package with her mother\rquote s Spode china cups and saucers into the discard box. \'93
There! A gift for the people who bought our house! And that\rquote s three and a half pounds of it!\'94
\par Then she began to cry.
\par Rita sobered. \'93I\rquote ll leave my insect specimens,\'94 she whispered. Then she buried her head in her mother\rquote s dress, and she too was sobbing.
\par \'93What\rquote re you two crying about?\'94 David spoke from the kitchen doorway, his bat-eye box strapped to his shoulders. His small features were drawn into a pinched look of misery.
\par Margaret dried her eyes. \'93Davey\'85 David, we\rquote re going to try to take your piano with us.\'94
\par His chin lifted, his features momentarily relaxed, then the tight unhappiness returned. \'93Sure. They\rquote ll just dump out some of dad\rquote s seeds and a few tools and scientific instruments for my\'85\'94
\par \'93There\rquote s another way,\'94 she said.
\par \'93What other way?\'94 His voice was fighting against a hope that might be smashed.
\par Margaret explained her plan.
\par \'93Go begging?\'94 he asked. \'93Asking people to give up their own\'85\'94
\par \'93David, this will be a barren and cold new world we\rquote re going to colonize\emdash very few comforts, drab issue clothing\emdash 
almost no refinements or the things we think of as belonging to a civilized culture. A real honest to goodness earth piano and the\'85 man to play it would help. It\rquote d help our morale, and keep down the homesickness that\rquote s sure to come.\'94

\par His sightless eyes appeared to stare at her for a long moment of silence; then he said: \'93That would be a terrible responsibility for me.\'94
\par She felt pride in her son flow all through her, said: \'93I\rquote m glad you see it that way.\'94
\par The small booklet of regulations and advice handed out at the first assembly in White Sands carried names and addresses of all the colonists. Margaret started at the top of the list, called Selma Atkins of Little Rock, wife of the expedition\rquote 
s head zoologist.
\par Mrs. Atkins was a dark little button of a woman with flaming hair and a fizzing personality. She turned out to be a born conspirator. Before Margaret had finished explaining the problem, Selma Atkins was volunteerin
g to head a phone committee. She jotted down names of prospects, said: \'93Even if we get the weight allowance, how\rquote ll we get the thing aboard?\'94
\par Margaret looked puzzled. \'93What\rquote s wrong with just showing that we have the weight allowance, and handing the piano over to the people who pack things on the ship?\'94
\par \'93Charlesworthy\rquote d never go for it, honey. He\rquote s livid at the amount of equipment that\rquote s had to be passed over because of the weight problem. He\rquote d take one look at one thousand four hundred and eight pounds of 
piano and say: That\rquote ll be a spare atomic generation kit!\rquote  My husband says he\rquote s had to drill holes in packing boxes to save ounces!\'94
\par \'93But how could we smuggle\'85\'94
\par Selma snapped her fingers. \'93I know! Ozzy Lucan!\'94
\par \'93Lucan?\'94
\par \'93The ship\rquote s steward,\'94 said Selma. \'93You know: the big horse of a man with red hair. He spoke at one of the meetings on\emdash you know\emdash all about how to conserve weight in packing and how to use the special containers.\'94
\par \'93Oh, yes,\'94 said Margaret. \'93What about him?\'94
\par \'93He\rquote s married to my third cousin Betty\rquote s oldest daughter. Nothing like a little family pressure. I\rquote ll work on it.\'94
\par \'93Wouldn\rquote t he be likely to go directly to Charlesworthy with it?\'94 asked Margaret:
\par \'93Hah!\'94 barked Selma. \'93You don\rquote t know Betty\rquote s side of our family!\'94
\par Dr. Linquist arrived in the middl
e of the morning, two consultant psychiatrists in tow. They spent an hour with David, came down to the kitchen where Margaret and Rita were finishing the microfilming of the recipe files. David followed them, stood in the doorway.
\par \'93The boy\rquote s apparently tougher than I realized,\'94 said Linquist. \'93Are you sure he hasn\rquote t been told he can take that piano? I hope you haven\rquote t been misleading him to make him feel better.\'94
\par David frowned.
\par Margaret said: \'93Dr. Charlesworthy refused to take the piano when I asked him. However, he\rquote s sent two experts to the Steinway factory so we\rquote ll be sure of an exact duplicate.\'94
\par Linquist turned to David. \'93And that\rquote s all right with you, David?\'94
\par David hesitated, then: \'93I understand about the weight.\'94
\par \'93Well, I guess you\rquote re growing up,\'94 said Linquist.
\par When the psychiatrists had gone, Rita turned on Margaret. \'93Mother! You lied to them!\'94
\par \'93No she didn\rquote t,\'94 said David. \'93She told the exact truth.\'94
\par \'93But not all of it,\'94 said Margaret.
\par \'93That\rquote s just the same as lying,\'94 said Rita.
\par \'93Oh, stop it!\'94 snapped Margaret. Then: \'93David, are you sure you want to leave your braille texts?\'94
\par \'93Yes. That\rquote s sixteen pounds. We\rquote ve got the braille punch kit and the braille typewriter; I can type new copies of everything I\rquote ll need if Rita will read to me.\'94
\par By three o\rquote clock that afternoon they had Chief Steward Oswald Lucan\rquote s reluctant agreement to smuggle the piano aboard if they could get the weight allowance precise to the ounce. But Lucan\rquote s parting words were: \'93Don\rquote 
t let the old man get wind of this. He\rquote s boiling about the equipment we\rquote ve had to cut out.\'94
\par At seven thirty, Margaret added the first day\rquote s weight donations: sixty-one commitments for a total of two hundred and seven pounds and seven ounces. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Not enough from each person,}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  she told herself. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 But I can\rquote t blame them. We\rquote re all tied to our possessions. It\rquote 
s so hard to part with all the little things that link us with the past and with Earth. We\rquote ve got to find more weight somewhere.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
 She cast about in her own mind for things to discard, knew a sense of futility at the few pounds she had at her disposal.
\par By ten o\rquote clock on the morning of the third day they had five hundred and fifty-four pounds and eight ounces from one hundred and sixty of their fellow colonists. They also had an even twenty violent rejections. The tension of
 fear that one of these twenty might give away their conspiracy was beginning to tell on Margaret.
\par David, too, was sinking back into gloom. He sat on the piano bench in the music room, Margaret behind him in her favorite chair. One of David\rquote s hands absently caressed the keys that Maurice Hatchell had brought to such crashing life.
\par \'93We\rquote re getting less than four pounds per person, aren\rquote t we?\'94 asked David.
\par Margaret rubbed her cheek. \'93Yes.\'94
\par A gentle chord came from the piano. \'93We aren\rquote t going to make it,\'94 said David. A fluid rippling of music lifted in the room. \'93I\rquote m not sure we have the right to ask this of people anyway. They\rquote 
re giving up so much already, and then we\'85\'94
\par \'93Hush, Davey.\'94
\par He let the baby name pass, coaxed a floating passage of Debussy from the keys.
\par Margaret put her hands to her eyes, cried silently with fatigue and frustration. But the tears coming from David\rquote s fingers on the piano went deeper.
\par Presently, he stood up, walked slowly out of the room, up the stairs. She heard his bedroom door close softly. The lack of violence in his actions cut her like a knife.
\par The phone chime broke Margaret from her blue reverie. She took the call on the portable in the hall. Selma Atkins\rquote  features came onto the screen, wide-eyed, subdued.
\par \'93Ozzy just called me,\'94 she blurted. \'93Somebody snitched to Charlesworthy this morning.\'94
\par Margaret put a hand over her mouth.
\par \'93Did you tell your husband what we were doing?\'94 asked Selma.
\par \'93No.\'94 Margaret shook her head. \'93I was going to, and then I got afraid of what he\rquote d say. He and Charlesworthy are very close friends, you know.\'94
\par \'93You mean he\rquote d peach on his own wife?\'94
\par \'93Oh, no, but he might\'85\'94
\par \'93Well, he\rquote s on the carpet now,\'94 said Selma. \'93Ozzy says the whole base is jumping. He was shouting and banging his hands on the desk at Walter and\'85\'94
\par \'93Charlesworthy?\'94
\par \'93Who else? I called to warn you. He\'85\'94
\par \'93But what\rquote ll we do?\'94 asked Margaret.
\par \'93We run for cover, honey. We fall back and regroup. Call me as soon as you\rquote ve talked to him. Maybe we can think of a new plan.\'94
\par \'93We\rquote ve contributions from more than half the colonists,\'94 said Margaret. \'93That means we\rquote ve more than half of them on our side to begin\'85\'94
\par \'93Right now the colony organization is a dictatorship, not a democracy,\'94 said Selma. \'93But I\rquote ll be thinking about it. Bye now.\'94
\par David came up behind her as she was breaking the connection. \'93I heard,\'94 he said. \'93That finishes us, doesn\rquote t it?\'94
\par The phone chimed before she could answer him. She flipped the switch. Walter\rquote s face came onto the screen. He looked haggard, the craggy lines more pronounced.
\par \'93Margaret,\'94 he said. \'93I\rquote m calling from Dr. Charlesworthy\rquote s office.\'94 He took a deep breath. \'93Why didn\rquote t you come to me about this? I could\rquote ve told you how foolish it was!\'94
\par \'93That\rquote s why!\'94 she said.
\par \'93But smuggling a piano onto the ship! Of all the\'85\'94
\par \'93I was thinking of Davey!\'94 she snapped.
\par \'93Good Lord, I know it! But\'85\'94
\par \'93When the doctors said he might die if he lost his\'85\'94
\par \'93But Margaret, a thousand-pound piano!\'94
\par \'93Fourteen hundred and eight pounds,\'94 she corrected him.
\par \'93Let\rquote s not argue, darling,\'94 he said. \'93I admire your guts\'85 and I love you, but I can\rquote t let you endanger the social solidarity of the colony group\'85\'94 he shook his head \'93\'85not even for David.\'94
\par \'93Even if it kills your own son?\'94 she demanded.
\par \'93I\rquote m not about to kill my son,\'94 he said. \'93I\rquote m an ecologist, remember? It\rquote s my job to keep us alive\'85 as a group }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 and}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
 singly! And I\'85\'94
\par \'93Dad\rquote s right,\'94 said David. He moved up beside Margaret.
\par \'93I didn\rquote t know you were there, son,\'94 said Walter.
\par \'93It\rquote s all right, Dad.\'94
\par \'93Just a moment, please.\'94 It was Charlesworthy, pushing in beside Walter. \'93I want to know how much weight allowance you\rquote ve been promised.\'94
\par \'93Why?\'94 asked Margaret. \'93So you can figure how many more scientific }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 toys}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  to take along?\'94
\par \'93I want to know how close you are to success in your little project,\'94 he said.
\par \'93Five hundred and fifty-four pounds and eight ounces,\'94 she said. \'93Contributions from one hundred and sixty people!\'94
\par Charlesworthy pursed his lips. \'93Just about one-third of what you need,\'94 he said. \'93And at this rate you wouldn\rquote t get enough. If you had any chance of success I\rquote d almost be inclined to say go ahead, but you can see for yourself that
\'85\'94
\par \'93I have an idea,\'94 said David.
\par Charlesworthy looked at him. \'93You\rquote re David?\'94
\par \'93Yes, sir.\'94
\par \'93What\rquote s your idea?\'94
\par \'93How much would the harp and keyboard from my piano weigh? You have people at the factory\'85\'94
\par \'93You mean take just that much of your piano?\'94 asked Charlesworthy.
\par \'93Yes, sir. It wouldn\rquote t be the same\'85 it\rquote d be better. It would have roots in both worlds\emdash part of the piano from Earth and part from Planet C.\'94
\par \'93Darned if I don\rquote t like the idea,\'94 said Charlesworthy. He turned. \'93Walter, call Phil Jackson at the Steinway plant. Find out how much that portion of the piano would weigh.\'94
\par Walter left the field of the screen. The others waited. Presently, Walter returned, said: \'93Five hundred and sixty-two pounds more or less. Hector Torres was on the line, too. He said he\rquote s sure he can duplicate the rest of the piano exactly.\'94

\par Charlesworthy smiled. \'93That\rquote s it, then! I\rquote m out of my mind\'85 we need so many other things with us so desperately. But maybe we need this too: for morale.\'94
\par \'93With the right morale we can make anything else we may need,\'94 said Walter.
\par Margaret found a scratch pad in the phone drawer, scribbled figures on it. She looked up: \'93I\rquote ll get busy right now and find a way to meet the extra few pounds we\rquote ll need to\'85\'94
\par \'93How much more?\'94 asked Charlesworthy.
\par Margaret looked down at her scratch pad. \'93Seven pounds and eight ounces.\'94
\par Charlesworthy took a deep breath. \'93While I\rquote m still out of my mind, let me make another gesture: Mrs. Charlesworthy and I will contribute seven pounds and eight ounces to the cultural future of our new home.\'94
\par }\pard\plain \s1\qc \li595\ri595\sb1440\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \b\fs48\lang1049\langfe1049\kerning36\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
{\*\bkmkstart _Encounter_in_a_Lonely_Place}{\*\bkmkend _Encounter_in_a_Lonely_Place}Encounter in a Lonely Place
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 \'93You\rquote 
re interested in extrasensory perception, eh? Well, I guess I\rquote ve seen as much of that as the next fellow and that\rquote s no lie.\'94
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 He was a little bald f
ellow with rimless glasses and he sat beside me on the bench outside the village post office where I was catching the afternoon edge of the April sun and reading an article called \'93The Statistical Argument For ESP\'94 in the Scientific Quarterly.

\par I had seen him glance at the title over my shoulder.
\par He was a little fellow\emdash Cranston was his name\emdash and he had been in the village since as long as I could remember. He was born up on Burley Creek in a log cabin but lived now with a widowed sister whose name was Berstau
ble and whose husband had been a sea captain. The captain had built one of those big towered and shingle-sided houses that looked down from the ridge onto the village and the sheltered waters of the Sound beyond. It was a weathered grey house half hidden 
by tall firs and hemlocks and it imparted an air of mystery to its occupants.
\par The immediate mystery to me was why Cranston had come down to the post office. They had a hired hand to run such errands. You seldom saw any of the family down in the village, alt
hough Cranston was sociable enough when you met him at the Grange hall and could be depended on for good conversation or a game of checkers.
\par Cranston stood about five feet four and weighed, I guess, about a hundred and fifty\emdash so you can see he wasn\rquote t skinny. His clothing, winter or summer, was a visored painter\rquote 
s cap, a pair of bib overalls and a dark brown shirt of the kind the loggers wore\emdash though I don\rquote t think he was ever a logger or, for that matter, ever did heavy labor of any kind.
\par \'93Something special bring you down to the post office?\'94 I asked in the direct and prying village manner. \'93Don\rquote t see you down here very much.\'94
\par \'93I was\'85 hoping to see someone,\'94 he said. He nodded toward the Scientific Quarterly in my lap. \'93Didn\rquote t know you were interested in extrasensory perception.\'94
\par There was no preventing it, I saw. I\rquote m one of those people who attract confidences\emdash even when we don\rquote t want confidences\emdash and it was obvious Cranston had a \'93story.\'94
 I tried once more to head him off, though, because I was in one of those moods writers get\emdash where we\rquote d just as soon bite off heads as look at them.
\par \'93I think ESP is a damned racket,\'94 I said. \'93And it\rquote s disgusting to see them twist logic trying to devise mathematical proofs for\'85\'94
\par \'93Well, I wouldn\rquote t be too sure if I were you,\'94 he said. \'93I could tell you a thing or two and that\rquote s no lie.\'94
\par \'93You read minds,\'94 I said.
\par \'93Read\rquote s the wrong word,\'94 he said. \'93And it isn\rquote t minds\'85\'94 Here, he stared once up the road that branched above the post office before looking back at me. \'93It\rquote s mind.\'94
\par \'93You read a mind,\'94 I said.
\par \'93I can see you don\rquote t believe,\'94 he said. \'93I\rquote m going to tell you anyway. Never told an outsider before\'85 but you\rquote re not really an outsider, your folks being who they are, and since you\rquote 
re a writer you may make something of this.\'94
\par I sighed and closed the Quarterly.
\par \'93I\rquote d just moved up from the creek to live with my sister,\'94 Cranston said. \'93I was seventeen. She\rquote d been married, let\rquote s see, about three years then, but her husband\emdash the captain\emdash 
was away at sea. To Hong Kong if I remember rightly. Her father-in-law, old Mr. Jerusalem Berstauble, was living then. Had the downstairs bedroom that opens on the back porch. Deaf as a diver he was, for sure, and couldn\rquote 
t get out of his wheelchair without you helped him. Which was why they sent for me to come up from the creek. He was a living heller, old Mr. Jerusalem, if you remember. But then you never knew him, I guess.\'94
\par (This was the sliding reference to my borderline status that no villager seemed able to avoid when discussing \'93olden times\'94 with me\emdash though they all accepted me because my grandparents were villagers and everyone in the valley knew I had \'93
come home\'94 to recover from my wound in the war.)
\par \'93Old Mr. Jerusalem dearly loved his game of cribbage in the evening,\'94 Cranston said. \'93This one evening I\rquote m telling you about he and my sister were playing their game in the study. They didn\rquote 
t talk much because of his deafness and all we could hear through the open door of the study was the slap of the cards and my sister kind of muttering as she pegged each hand.
\par \'93We\rquote 
d turned off the living room lights, but there was a fire in the fireplace and there was light from the study. I was sitting in the living room with Olna, the Norwegian girl who helped my sister then. She married Gus Bills a couple years later, the on
e killed when the donkey engine blew up at Indian Camp. Olna and I\rquote d been playing a Norwegian card game they call }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 reap}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
 which is something like whist, but we got tired of it and were just sitting there across the fireplace from each other halfway listening to the cards slapping down the way they did in the study.\'94
\par Cranston pushed back his visored painter\rquote s cap and glanced toward the green waters of the Sound where a tug was nursing a boom of logs out from the tidal basin.
\par \'93Oh, she was pretty then, Olna was,\'94 he said presently. \'93Her hair was like silvered gold. And her skin\emdash it was like you could look right into it.\'94
\par \'93You were sweet on her,\'94 I said.
\par \'93Daft is the word,\'94 he said. \'93And she didn\rquote t mind me one bit, either\'85 at first there.\'94
\par Again, he fell silent. He tugged once at his cap visor. Presently, he said: \'93I was trying to remember if it was my idea or hers. It was mine. Olna had the deck of cards still in her hands. And I said to her, \lquote Olna, you shuffle the deck. Don
\rquote t let me see the cards.\rquote  Yes, that\rquote s how it was. I said for her to shuffle the deck and take one card at a time off the top and see if I could guess what it was.
\par \'93There was a lot of talk going around just then about this fellow at Duke University, this doctor, I forget his name, who had these cards people guessed. I think that\rquote s what put the notion in my mind.\'94
\par Cranston fell silent a moment and I swear he looked younger for an instant\emdash especially around the eyes.
\par \'93So you shuffled the cards,\'94 I said, interested in spite of myself. \'93What then?\'94
\par \'93Eh? Oh\'85 she said: \lquote Yah, see if you can guess diss vun.\rquote  She had a thick accent, Olna. Would\rquote ve thought she\rquote 
d been born in the old country instead of over by Port Orchard. Well, she took that first card and looked at it. Lord, how pretty she was bending to catch the light from the study door. And you know, I knew the instant she saw it what it was\emdash 
the Jack of clubs. It was as though I saw it in my mind somewhere\'85 not exactly seeing, but I knew. So I just blurted out what it was.\'94
\par \'93You got one right out of fifty-two\'85 not bad,\'94 I said.
\par \'93We went right through the deck and I named every card for her,\'94 Cranston said. \'93As she turned them up\emdash every card; not one mistake.\'94
\par I didn\rquote t believe him, of course. These stories are a dime a dozen in the study of ESP, so I\rquote m told. None of them pan out. But I }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 was}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
 curious why he was telling this story. Was it the old village bachelor, the nobody, the man existing on a sister\rquote s charity trying to appear important?
\par \'93So you named every card for her,\'94 I said. \'93You ever figure the odds against that?\'94
\par \'93I had a professor over at the State College do it for me once,\'94 Cranston said. \'93I forget how much it was. He said it was impossible such a thing was chance.\'94
\par \'93Impossible,\'94 I agreed not trying to disguise my disbelief. \'93What did Olna think of this?\'94
\par \'93She thought it was a trick\emdash parlor magic, you know.\'94
\par \'93She was wearing glasses and you saw the cards reflected in them, isn\rquote t that it?\'94 I asked.
\par \'93She doesn\rquote t wear glasses to this day,\'94 Cranston said.
\par \'93Then you saw them reflected in her eyes,\'94 I said.
\par \'93She was sitting in shadows about ten feet away,\'94 he said. \'93She only had the light from the study door to see the cards. She had to hold them toward the firelight from the fireplace for me to see them. No, it wasn\rquote 
t anything like that. Besides, I had my eyes closed some of the time. I just kind of saw those cards\'85 this place in my mind that I found. I didn\rquote t have to hesitate or guess. I }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 knew}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  every time.\'94
\par \'93Well, that\rquote s very interesting,\'94 I said, and I opened the Scientific Quarterly. \'93Perhaps you should be back at Duke helping Dr. Rhine.\'94
\par \'93You can bet I was excited,\'94 he said, ignoring my attempt to end the conversation. \'93This famous doctor had said humans could do this thing, and here I was proving it.\'94
\par \'93Yes,\'94 I said. \'93Perhaps you should write Dr. Rhine and tell him.\'94
\par \'93I told Olna to shuffle the cards and we\rquote d try it again,\'94 Cranston said, his voice beginning to sound slightly desperate. \'93She didn\rquote t seem too eager, but she did it. I did notice her hands were trembling.\'94
\par \'93You frightened the poor child with your parlor magic,\'94 I said.
\par He sighed and sat there in silence for a moment staring at the waters of the Sound. The tug was chugging off with its boom of logs. I found myself suddenly feeling very sorry for this pitiful little man. He had never been more than f
ifty miles from the village, I do believe. He lived a life bounded by that old house on the ridge, the weekly card games at the Grange and an occasional trip to the store for groceries. I don\rquote 
t even believe they had television. His sister was reputed to be a real old-fashioned harridan on the subject.
\par \'93Did you name all the cards again?\'94 I asked, trying to sound interested.
\par \'93Without one mistake,\'94 he said. \'93I had that place in my mind firmly located by then. I could find my way to it every time.\'94
\par \'93And Olna wanted to know how you were doing it,\'94 I said.
\par He swallowed. \'93No. I think she\'85 }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 felt}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  how I was doing it. We hadn\rquote t gone through more\rquote 
 fifteen cards that second time when she threw the deck onto the floor. She sat there shivering and staring at me. Suddenly, she called me some name\emdash I never did rightly hear it straights\emdash 
and she leaped up and ran out of the house. It happened so fast! She was out the back door before I was on my feet. I ran out after her but she was gone. We found out later she hitched a ride on 
the bread truck and went straight home to Port Orchard. She never came back.\'94
\par \'93That\rquote s too bad,\'94 I said. \'93The one person whose mind you could read and she ran out on you.\'94
\par \'93She never came back,\'94 he said, and I swear his voice had tears in it. \'93Everyone thought\'85 you know, that I\rquote d made improper advances. My sister was pretty mad. Olna\rquote s brother came for her things the next day. He threatened to }{
\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 whoomp}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  me if I ever set foot on\'85\'94
\par Cranston broke off, turning to stare up the gravel road that comes into the villag
e from the hill farms to the west. A tall woman in a green dress that ended half way between knees and ankles had just turned the corner by the burned-out stump and was making for the post office. She. walked with her head down so you could see part of th
e top of her head where the yellow hair was braided and wound tight like a crown. She was a big woman with a good figure and a healthy swing to her stride.
\par \'93I heard her brother was sick,\'94 Cranston said.
\par I glanced at Cranston and the look on his face\emdash sad and distant\emdash answered my unspoke question.
\par \'93That\rquote s Olna,\'94 I said. I began to feel excitement. I didn\rquote t believe his fool story, still\'85
\par \'93She doesn\rquote t come down here very often,\'94 Cranston said. \'93But with her brother sick, I\rquote d hoped\'85\'94
\par She turned off onto the post o
ffice path and the corner of the building hid her from us. We heard the door open on the other side and a low mumble of conversation in the building. Presently, the door opened once more and the woman came around the corner, taking the path that passed in
 front of us toward the store down by the highway. She still had her head bent, but now she was reading a letter.
\par As she passed in front of us no more than six feet away, Cranston said: \'93Olna?\'94
\par Her head whipped around and she stopped with one foot ahead of the other. I swear I\rquote ve never seen more terror in a person\rquote s face. She just stared frozen at Cranston.
\par \'93I\rquote m sorry about your sister\rquote s boy,\'94 Cranston said, and then added: \'93If I were you, I\rquote d suggest she take the boy to one of those specialists in Minneapolis. They do wonders with plastic surgery nowadays and\'85\'94
\par \'93You!\'94 she screamed. Her right hand came up with the index and little fingers pointed at Cranston in a warding-of-evil sign that I\rquote d thought died out in the middle ages. \'93You stay out of my head\'85 you\'85 you }{
\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 cottys!}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 \'94
\par Her words broke the spell. She picked up her skirts and fled down the path toward the highway. The last we saw of her was a running figure that sped around the corner by the garage.
\par I tried to find something to say, but nothing came. Cottys, that was the Danuan Pan who seduced virgins by capturing their minds, but I\rquote d never realized that the Norse carried that legend around.
\par \'93Her sister just wrote her in that letter,\'94 Cranston said, \'93that the youngest boy was badly scalded by a kettle tipped off the stove. Just happened day before yesterday. That\rquote s an airmail letter. Don\rquote t get many of them here.\'94

\par \'93Are you trying to tell me you read that letter through her eyes?\'94 I demanded.
\par \'93I never lost that place I found,\'94 he said. \'93Lord knows I tried to lose it often enough. Especially after she married Gus Bills.\'94
\par Excitement boiled in me. The possibilities\'85
\par \'93Look,\'94 I said, \'93I\rquote ll write to Duke University myself. We can\'85\'94
\par \'93Don\rquote t you dare!\'94 he snapped. \'93It\rquote s bad enough every man in the valley knows this about us. Oh, I know they mostly don\rquote t believe\'85 but the chance\'85\'94 He shook his head. \'93I\rquote 
ll not stand in her way if she finds a suitable man to\'85\'94
\par \'93But, man,\'94 I said. \'93If you\'85\'94
\par \'93You believe me now, don\rquote t you?\'94 he said, and his voice had a sly twist I didn\rquote t like.
\par \'93Well,\'94 I said, \'93I\rquote d like to see this examined by people who\'85\'94
\par \'93Make it a sideshow,\'94 he said. \'93Stories in the Sunday papers. Whole world\rquote d know.\'94
\par \'93But if\'85\'94
\par \'93She won\rquote t have me!\'94 he barked. \'93Don\rquote t you understand? She\rquote ll never lose me, but she won\rquote t have me. Even when she went on the train back to Minneapolis\'85 the week after she ran out of our house\'85\'94
\par His voice trailed off.
\par \'93But think of what this could mean to\'85\'94
\par \'93There\rquote s the only woman I ever loved,\'94 Cranston said. \'93Only woman I ever could\rquote ve married\'85 she thinks I\rquote m the devil himself!\'94 He turned and glared at me. \'93You think I want to expose }{
\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 that?}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  I\rquote d reach into my head with a bailing hook and tear that place out of my mind first!\'94
\par And with that he bounced to his feet and took off up the path that led toward the road to the ridge.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\qc \li595\ri595\sb1440\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \b\fs48\lang1049\langfe1049\kerning36\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
{\*\bkmkstart _Operation_Syndrome}{\*\bkmkend _Operation_Syndrome}Operation Syndrome
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
Honolulu is quiet, the dead buried, the rubble of buildings cleaned away. A salvage barge rocks in the Pacific swell off Diamond Head. Divers follow a bubble trail down into the green water to the wreck of the Statesid
e skytrain. The Scramble Syndrome did this. Ashore, in converted barracks, psychologists work fruitlessly in the aftermath of insanity. This is where the Scramble Syndrome started: one minute the city was peaceful; a clock tick later the city was mad.

\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 In forty days\emdash 
nine cities infected.
\par The twentieth century\rquote s Black Plague.
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qc \li2381\ri2381\sb480\sa480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin2381\lin2381\itap0\ipgp1 \b\fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 SEATTLE
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
First a ringing in the ears, fluting up to a whistle. The whistle became the warning blast of a nightmare train roaring clackety-clack, clackety-clack across his dream.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 A psychoa
nalyst might have enjoyed the dream as a clinical study. This psychoanalyst was not studying the dream; he was having it. He clutched the sheet around his neck, twisted silently on the bed, drawing his knees under his chin.
\par The train whistle modulated into the contralto of an expensive chanteuse singing \'93Insane Crazy Blues.\'94 The dream carried vibrations of fear and wildness.
\par \'93A million dollars don\rquote t mean a thing\emdash \'94
\par Hoarse voice riding over clarion brass, bumping of drums, clarinet squealing like an angry horse.
\par A dark-skinned singer with electric-blue eyes and dressed in black stepped away from a red backdrop. She opened her arms to an unseen audience. The singer, the backdrop lurched into motion, revolving faster and faster and faster until it merged into a 
pinpoint of red light. The red light dilated to the bell mouth of a trumpet sustaining a minor note.
\par The music shrilled; it was a knife cutting his brain.
\par Dr. Eric Ladde awoke. He breathed rapidly; he oozed perspiration. Still he heard the singer, the music.
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 I\rquote m dreaming that I\rquote m awake,}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  he thought.
\par He peeled off the top sheet, slipped his feet out, put them on the warm floor. Presently, he stood up, walked to the window, looked down on the moontrail shimmering across Lake Washington. He touched the sound sw
itch beside the window and now he could hear the night\emdash crickets, spring peepers at the lakeshore, the far hum of a skytrain.
\par The singing remained.
\par He swayed, gripped at the windowsill.
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Scramble Syndrome\emdash }{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par He turned, examined the bedside newstape: no mention of Seattle. Perhaps he was safe\emdash illness. But the music inside his head was no illness.
\par He made a desperate clutch for self-control, shook his head, banged his ear with the palm of his hand. The singing persisted. He looked to the bedside clock\emdash 1:05 A.M., Friday, May 14, 1999.
\par Inside his head the music stopped. But now\emdash  Applause! A roar of clapping, cries, stamping of feet. Eric rubbed his head.
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 I\rquote m not insane\'85 I\rquote m not insane\emdash }{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par He slipped into his dressing gown, went into the kitchen cubicle of his bachelor residence. He drank water, yawned, held his breath\emdash anything to drive away the noise, now a chicken-haggle of talking, clinking, slithering of feet.
\par He made himself a highball, splashed the drink at the back of his throat. The sounds inside his head turned off. Eric looked at the empty glass in his hand, shook his head.
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 A new specific for insanity\emdash alcohol!}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  He smiled wryly. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
And every day I tell my patients that drinking is no solution.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  He tasted a bitter thought: }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Maybe I should have joined that therapy team, 
not stayed here trying to create a machine to cure the insane. If only they hadn\rquote t laughed at me\emdash }{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par He moved a fibreboard box to make room beside the sink, put down his glass. A notebook protruded from the box, sitting atop a mound of electronic parts. He picked up the notebook, stared at his own familiar block printing on the cover: }{
\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Amanti Teleprobe\emdash Test Book IX.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 They laughed at the old doctor, too,}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  he thought. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Laughed him right into an asylum. Maybe that
\rquote s where I\rquote m headed\emdash along with everyone else in the world.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par He opened the notebook, traced his finger along the diagram of his latest experimental circuit. The teleprobe in his basement laboratory still carried the wiring, partially dismantled.
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 What was wrong with it?}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par He closed the notebook, tossed it back int
o the box. His thoughts hunted through the theories stored in his mind, the knowledge saved from a thousand failures. Fatigue and despondency pulled at him. Yet, he knew that the things Freud, Jung, Adler and all the others had sought in dreams and manner
isms hovered just beyond his awareness in an electronic tracer circuit.
\par He wandered back into his study-bedroom, crawled into the bed. He practiced yoga breathing until sleep washed over him. The singer, the train, the whistle did not return.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Morning lighte
d the bedroom. He awoke, trailing fragments of his nightmare into consciousness, aware that his appointment book was blank until ten o\rquote clock. The bedside newstape offered a long selection of stories, most headed \'93Scramble Syndrome.\'94
 He punched code letters for eight items, flipped the machine to audio and listened to the news while dressing.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
Memory of his nightmare nagged at him. He wondered, \'93How many people awake in the night, asking themselves, \lquote Is it my turn now?\rquote \'94
\par He selected a mauve cape, drew it over
 his white coveralls. Retrieving the notebook from the box in the kitchen, he stepped out into the chill spring morning. He turned up the temperature adjustment of his coveralls. The unitube whisked him to the Elliott Bay waterfront. He ate at a seafood r
estaurant, the teleprobe notebook open beside his plate. After breakfast, he found an empty bench outside facing the bay, sat down, opened the notebook. He found himself reluctant to study the diagrams, stared out at the bay.
\par Mists curled from the gray water, obscuring the opposite shore. Somewhere in the drift a purse-seiner sounded its hooter. Echoes bounced off the buildings behind him. Early workers hurried past, voices stilled: thin look of faces, hunted glances\emdash 
the uniform of fear. Coldness from the bench seeped through his clothing. He shivered, drew a deep breath of the salt air. The breeze off the bay carried essence of seaweed, harmonic on the dominant bitter musk of a city\rquote 
s effluvia. Seagulls haggled over a morsel in the tide rip. The papers on his lap fluttered. He held them down with one hand, watching the people.
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 I\rquote m procrastinating,}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  he thought. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 It\rquote 
s a luxury my profession can ill afford nowadays.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par A woman in a red fur cape approached, her sandals tapping a swift rhythm on the concrete. Her cape billowed behind in a puff of breeze.
\par He looked up to her face framed in dark hair. Every muscle in his body locked. She was the woman of his nightmare down to the minutest detail! His eyes followed her. She saw him staring, looked away, walked past.
\par Eric fumbled his papers together, closed the notebook and ran after her. He caught up, matched his steps to hers, still staring, unthinking. She looked at him, flushed, looked away.
\par \'93Go away or I\rquote ll call a cop!\'94
\par \'93Please, I have to talk to you.\'94
\par \'93I said go away.\'94 She increased her pace; he matched it.
\par \'93Please forgive me, but I dreamed about you last night. You see\emdash \'94
\par She stared straight ahead.
\par \'93I\rquote ve been told }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 that}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  one before! Go away!\'94
\par \'93But you don\rquote t understand.\'94
\par She stopped, turned and faced him, shaking with anger. \'93But I }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 do}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  understand! You saw my show last night! You\rquote ve dreamed about me!\'94
 She wagged her head. \'93Miss Lanai, I }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 must}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  get to know you!\'94
\par Eric shook his head. \'93But I\rquote ve never even heard of you or seen you before.\'94
\par \'93Well! I\rquote m not accustomed to being insulted either!\'94 She whirled, walked away briskly, the red cape flowing out behind her. Again he caught up with her.
\par \'93Please\emdash \'94
\par \'93I\rquote ll scream!\'94
\par \'93I\rquote m a psychoanalyst.\'94
\par She hesitated, slowed, stopped. A puzzled expression flowed over her face. \'93Well, that\rquote s a new approach.\'94
\par He took advantage of her interest. \'93I really did dream about you. It was most disturbing. I couldn\rquote t shut it off.\'94
\par Something in his voice, his manner\emdash  She laughed, \'93A real dream was bound to show up some day.\'94
\par \'93I\rquote m Dr. Eric Ladde.\'94
\par She glanced at the caduceus over his breast pocket. \'93I\rquote m Colleen Lanai; I sing.\'94
\par He winced. \'93I know.\'94
\par \'93I thought you\rquote d never heard of me.\'94
\par \'93You sang in my dream.\'94
\par \'93Oh.\'94 A pause. \'93Are you really a psychoanalyst?\'94
\par He slipped a card from his breast pocket; handed it to her. She looked at it.
\par \'93What does \lquote Teleprobe Diagnosis\rquote  mean?\'94
\par \'93That\rquote s an instrument I use.\'94
\par She returned the card, linked an arm through his, set an easy, strolling pace. \'93All right, doctor. You tell me about your dream and I\rquote ll tell you about my headaches. Fair exchange?\'94 She peered up at him from under thick eyelashes.
\par \'93Do you have headaches?\'94
\par \'93Terrible headaches.\'94 She shook her head.
\par Eric looked down at her. Some of the nightmare unreality returned. He thought, }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 What am I doing here? One doesn\rquote t dream about 
a strange face and then meet her in the flesh the next day. The next thing I know the whole world of my unconscious will come alive.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par \'93Could it be this Syndrome thing?\'94 she asked. \'93Ever since we were in Los Angeles I\rquote ve\emdash \'94 She chewed at her lip.
\par He stared at her. \'93You were in Los Angeles?\'94
\par \'93We got out just a few hours before that\'85 before\emdash \'94 She shuddered. \'93Doctor, what\rquote s it like to be crazy?\'94
\par He hesitated. \'93It\rquote s no different from being sane\emdash for the person involved.\'94 He looked out at the mist lifting from the bay. \'93The Syndrome appears similar to other forms of insanity. It\rquote 
s as though something pushed people over their lunacy thresholds. It\rquote s strange; there\rquote s a rather well-denned radius of about sixty miles which it saturated. Atlanta and Los Angeles, for insta
nce, and Lawton, had quite sharp lines of demarcation: people on one side of a street got it; people on the other side didn\rquote t. We suspect there\rquote s a contamination period during which\emdash \'94 He paused, looked down at her, smiled. \'93
And all you asked was a simple question. This is my lecture personality. I wouldn\rquote t worry too much about those headaches; probably diet, change of climate, maybe your eyes. Why don\rquote t you get a complete physical?\'94
\par She shook her head. \'93I\rquote ve had six physicals since we left Karachi: same thing\emdash four new diets.\'94 She shrugged. \'93Still I have headaches.\'94
\par Eric jerked to a stop, exhaled slowly. \'93You were in Karachi, too?\'94
\par \'93Why, yes; that was the third place we hit after Honolulu.\'94
\par He leaned toward her. \'93And Honolulu?\'94
\par She-frowned. \'93What is this, a cross-examination?\'94 She waited. \'93Well\emdash \'94
\par He swallowed, thought, }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 How can one person have been in these cities the Syndrome hit and be so casual about it?}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par She tapped a foot. \'93Cat got your tongue?\'94
\par He thought, }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 She\rquote s so flippant about it.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par He ticked off the towns on his fingers. \'93You were in Los Angeles, Honolulu, Karachi; you\rquote ve hit the high spots of Syndrome contamination and\emdash \'94
\par An animal cry, sharp, exclamatory, burst from her. \'93It got all of those places?\'94
\par He thought, }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 How could anyone be alive and not know exactly where the Syndrome has been?}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par He asked, \'93Didn\rquote t you know?\'94
\par She shook her head, a numb motion, eyes wide, staring. \'93But Pete said\emdash \'94 She stopped. \'93I\rquote ve been so busy learning new numbers. We\rquote re reviving the old time hot jazz.\'94
\par \'93How could you miss it? TV is full of it, the newstapes, the transgraphs.\'94
\par She shrugged. \'93I\rquote ve just been so busy. And I don\rquote t like to think about such things. Pete said\emdash \'94 She shook her head. \'93You know, this is the first time I\rquote ve been out alone for a walk in over a month. Pete was asleep and
\emdash \'94 Her expression softened. \'93That Pete; he must not have wanted me to worry.\'94
\par \'93If you say so, but\emdash \'94 He stopped. \'93Who\rquote s Pete?\'94
\par \'93Haven\rquote t you heard of Pete Serantis and the musikron?\'94
\par \'93What\rquote s a musikron?\'94
\par She shook back a curl of dark hair. \'93Have your little joke, doctor.\'94
\par \'93No, seriously. What\rquote s a musikron?\'94
\par She frowned. \'93You }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 really}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  don\rquote t know what the musikron is?\'94
\par He shook his head.
\par She chuckled, a throaty sound, controlled. \'93Doctor, you talk about }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 my}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  not knowing about Karachi and Honolulu. Where have
 you been hiding your head? }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Variety}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  has us at the top of the heap.\'94
\par He thought, \'93She\rquote s serious!\'94
\par A little stiffly, he said, \'93Well, I\rquote ve been quite busy with a research problem of my own. It deals with the Syndrome.\'94
\par \'93Oh.\'94 She turned, looked at the gray waters of the bay, turned back. She twisted her hands together. \'93Are you sure about Honolulu?\'94
\par \'93Is your family there?\'94
\par She shook her head. \'93I have no family. Just friends.\'94
\par She looked up at him, eyes shining. \'93Did it get\'85 everybody?\'94
\par He nodded, thought: }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 She needs something to distract her attention.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par He said, \'93Miss Lanai, could I ask a favor?\'94 He plunged ahead, not waiting for an answer. \'93You\rquote ve been three places where the Syndrome hit. Maybe there\rquote s a clue in your patterns. Would you consent to undergoing a se
ries of tests at my lab? They wouldn\rquote t take long.\'94
\par \'93I couldn\rquote t possibly; I have a show to do tonight. I just sneaked out for a few minutes by myself. I\rquote m at the Gweduc Room. Pete may wake up and\emdash \'94 She focused on his pleading expression. \'93I\rquote m sorry, doctor.
 Maybe some other time. You wouldn\rquote t find anything important from me anyway.\'94
\par He shrugged, hesitated. \'93But I haven\rquote t told you about my dream.\'94
\par \'93You tempt me, doctor. I\rquote ve heard a lot of phony dream reports. I\rquote d appreciate the McCoy for just once. Why don\rquote t you walk me back to the Gweduc Room? It\rquote s only a couple of blocks.\'94
\par \'93Okay.\'94
\par She took his arm.
\par \'93Half a loaf\emdash \'94
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
He was a thin man with a twisted leg, a pinched, hating face. A cane rested against his knee. Around him wove a spiderweb maze of wires\emdash musikron. On his head, a dome-shaped hood. A spy, unsuspected, he looked out through a woman\rquote 
s eyes at a man who had identified himself as Dr. Eric Ladde. The thin man sneered, heard through the woman\rquote s ears: \'93Half a loaf\emdash \'94
\par On the bayside walk, Eric and Colleen matched steps.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 \'93
You never did tell me what a musikron is.\'94
\par Her laughter caused a passing couple to turn and stare. \'93O.K. But I still don\rquote t understand. We\rquote ve been on TV for a month.\'94
\par He thought, }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 She thinks I\rquote m a fuddy; probably am!}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par He said, \'93I don\rquote t subscribe to the entertainment circuits. I\rquote m just on the science and news networks.\'94
\par She shrugged. \'93Well, the musikron is something like a recording and playback machine; only the operator mixes in any new sounds he wants. He wears a little metal bowl on his head and just thinks about the sounds\emdash the musikron plays them.\'94
 She stole a quick glance at him, looked ahead. \'93Everyone says it\rquote s a fake; it really isn\rquote t.\'94
\par Eric stopped, pulled her to a halt. \'93That\rquote s fantastic. Why\emdash \'94 He paused, chuckled. \'93You know, you happen to be talking to one of the few experts in the world on this sort of thing. I have an encephalo-recorder in my basement lab that
\rquote s the last word in teleprobes\'85 that\rquote s what you\rquote re trying to describe.\'94 He smiled. \'93The psychiatrists of this town may think I\rquote m a young upstart, but they send me their tough diagnostic cases.\'94
 He looked down at her. \'93So let\rquote s just admit your Pete\rquote s machine is artistic showmanship, shall we?\'94
\par \'93But it isn\rquote t just showmanship. I\rquote ve heard the records before they go into the machine and when they come out of it.\'94
\par Eric chuckled.
\par She frowned. \'93Oh, you\rquote re so supercilious.\'94
\par Eric put a hand on her arm. \'93Please don\rquote t be angry. It\rquote s just that I know this field. You don\rquote t want to admit that Pete has fooled you along with all the others.\'94
\par She spoke in a slow, controlled cadence: \'93Look\'85 doctor\'85 Pete\'85 was\'85 one\'85 of\'85 the\'85 inventors\'85 of\'85 the\'85 musikron\'85 Pete\'85 and\'85 old\'85 Dr\'85 Amanti.\'94 She squinted her eyes, looking up at him. \'93
You may be a big wheel in this business, but I know what I\rquote ve heard.\'94
\par \'93You said Pete worked on this musikron with a doctor. What did you say that doctor\rquote s name was?\'94
\par \'93Oh, Dr. Carlos Amanti. His name\rquote s on a little plate inside the musikron.\'94
\par Eric shook his head. \'93Impossible. Dr. Carlos Amanti is in an asylum.\'94
\par She nodded. \'93That\rquote s right; Wailiku Hospital for the Insane. That\rquote s where they worked on it.\'94
\par Eric\rquote s expression was cautious, hesitant. \'93And you say when Pete thinks about the sounds, the machine produces them?\'94
\par \'93Certainly.\'94
\par \'93Strange I\rquote d never heard about this musikron before.\'94
\par \'93Doctor, there are a lot of things you\rquote ve never heard about.\'94
\par He wet his lips with his tongue. \'93Maybe you\rquote re right.\'94 He took her arm, set a rapid pace down the walkway. \'93I want to see this musikron.\'94
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
In Lawton, Oklahoma, long rows of prefabricated barracks swelt
er on a sunbaked flat. In each barracks building, little cubicles; in each cubicle, a hospital bed; on each hospital bed, a human being. Barracks XRO-29: a psychiatrist walks down the hall, behind him an orderly pushing a cart. On the cart, hypodermic nee
dles, syringes, antiseptics, sedatives, test tubes. The psychiatrist shakes his head.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 \'93
Bafly, they certainly nailed this thing when they called it the Scramble Syndrome. Stick an egg-beater into every psychosis a person could have, mix \rquote em up, turn \rquote em all on.\'94
\par The orderly grunts, stares at the psychiatrist.
\par The psychiatrist looks back. \'93And we\rquote re not making any progress on this thing. It\rquote s like bailing out the ocean with a sieve.\'94
\par Down the hallway a man screams. Their footsteps quicken.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 The Gweduc Room\rquote s el
evator dome arose ahead of Eric and Colleen, a half-melon inverted on the walkway. At the top of the dome a blue and red script-ring circled slowly, spelling out, \'93Colleen Lanai with Pete Serantis and the Musikron.\'94
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 On the walkway before the dome a thin ma
n, using a cane to compensate for a limp, paced back and forth. He looked up as Eric and Colleen approached.
\par \'93Pete,\'94 she said.
\par The man limped toward them, his cane staccato on the paving.
\par \'93Pete, this is Dr. Ladde. He\rquote s heard about Dr. Amanti and he wants to\emdash \'94
\par Pete ignored Eric, stared fiercely at Colleen. \'93Don\rquote t you know we have a show tonight? Where have you been?\'94
\par \'93But, it\rquote s only a little after nine; I don\rquote t\emdash \'94
\par Eric interrupted. \'93I was a student of Dr. Amanti\rquote s. I\rquote m interested in your musikron. You see, I\rquote ve been carrying on Dr. Amanti\rquote s researches and\emdash \'94
\par The thin man barked, \'93No time!\'94 He took Colleen\rquote s arm, pulled her toward the dome.
\par \'93Pete, please! What\rquote s come over you?\'94 She held back.
\par Pete stopped, put his face close to hers. \'93Do you like this business?\'94
\par She nodded mutely, eyes wide.
\par \'93Then let\rquote s get to work!\'94
\par She looked back at Eric, shrugged her shoulders. \'93I\rquote m sorry.\'94
\par Pete pulled her into the dome.
\par Eric stared after them. He thought, \'93He\rquote s a decided compulsive type\'85 very unstable. May not be as immune to the Syndrome as she apparently is.\'94 He frowned, looked at his wristwatch, remembered his ten o\rquote clock appointment. \'93Damn!
\'94 He turned, almost collided with a young man in busboy\rquote s coveralls.
\par The young man puffed nervously at a cigarette, jerked it out of his mouth, leered. \'93Better find yourself another gal, Doc. That one\rquote s taken.\'94
\par Eric looked into the young-old eyes, stared them down. \'93You work in there?\'94
\par The young man replaced the cigarette between thin lips, spoke around a puff of blue smoke. \'93Yeah.\'94
\par \'93When does it open?\'94
\par The young man pulled the cigarette from his mouth, flipped it over Eric\rquote s shoulder into the bay. \'93We\rquote re open now for breakfast. Floor show doesn\rquote t start until seven tonight.\'94
\par \'93Is Miss Lanai in the floor show?\'94
\par The busboy looked up at the script-ring over the dome, smiled knowingly. \'93Doc, she }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 is}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  the floor show!\'94
\par Again Eric looked at his wrist watch, thought, }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 I\rquote m coming back here tonight.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  He turned toward the nearest unitube. \'93Thanks,\'94 he said.

\par \'93You better get reservations if you\rquote re coming back tonight,\'94 said the busboy.
\par Eric stopped, looked back. He reached into his pocket, found a twenty-buck piece, flipped it to the busboy. The thin young man caught the coin out of the air, looked at it, said, \'93Thank }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 you.}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  What name, Doc?\'94
\par \'93Dr. Eric Ladde.\'94
\par The busboy pocketed the coin. \'93Righto, Doc. Floorside. I come on again at six. I\rquote ll attend to you personally.\'94
\par Eric turned back to the unitube entrance again and left immediately.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
Under the smog-filtered Los Angeles sun, a brown-dry city.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Mobile Laboratory
 31 ground to a stop before Our Lady of Mercy Hospital, churning up a swirl of dried palm fronds in the gutter. The overworked turbo-motor sighed to a stop, grating. The Japanese psychologist emerged on one side, the Swedish doctor on the other. Their sho
ulders sagged.
\par The psychologist asked, \'93Ole, how long since you\rquote ve had a good night\rquote s sleep?\'94
\par The doctor shook his head. \'93I can\rquote t remember, Yoshi; not since I left Frisco, I guess.\'94
\par From the caged rear of the truck, wild, high-pitched laughter, a sigh, laughter.
\par The doctor stumbled on the steps to the hospital sidewalk. He stopped, turned. \'93Yoshi\emdash \'94
\par \'93Sure, Ole. I\rquote ll get some fresh orderlies to take care of this one.\'94 To himself he added, \'93If there are any fresh orderlies.\'94
\par Inside the hospital, cool air pressed down the hallway. The Swedish doctor stopped a man with a clipboard. \'93What\rquote s the latest count?\'94
\par The man scratched his forehead with a corner of the clipboard. \'93Two and a half million last I heard, doctor. They haven\rquote t found a sane one yet.\'94
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 The Gweduc Ro
om pointed a plastine finger under Elliott Bay. Unseen by the patrons, a cage compressed a high density of sea life over the transparent ceiling. Illumabeams traversed the water, treating the watchers to visions of a yellow salmon, a mauve perch, a pink o
ctopus, a blue jellyfish. At one end of the room, synthetic mother-of-pearl had been formed into a giant open gweduc shell\emdash the stage. Colored spotlights splashed the backdrop with ribbons of flame, blue shadows.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
Eric went down the elevator, emerged in an at}{\f407\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
mosphere disturbingly reminiscent of his nightmare. All it lacked was the singer. A waiter led him, threading a way through the dim haze of perfumed cigarette smoke, between tables ringed by men in formal black, women in gold lam\'e9
, luminous synthetics. An }{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 aquamarine glow shimmered from the small round table tops\emdash 
the only lights in the Gweduc Room other than spotlights on the stage and illumabeams in the dark water overhead. A susurration of many voices hung on the air. Aromas of alcohol, tobacco, perfumes, 
exotic seafoods layered the room, mingled with a perspirant undertone.
\par The table nestled in the second row, crowded on all sides. The waiter extricated a chair; Eric sat down.
\par \'93Something to drink, sir?\'94
\par \'93Bombay Ale.\'94
\par The waiter turned, merged into the gloom.
\par Eric tried to move his chair into a comfortable position, found it was wedged immovably between two chairs behind him, A figure materialized out of the gloom across from him; he recognized the busboy.
\par \'93Best I could get you, Doc.\'94
\par \'93This is excellent.\'94 Eric smiled, fished a twenty-buck piece from his pocket, pressed it into the other\rquote s hand.
\par \'93Anything I can do for you, Doc?\'94
\par \'93Would you tell Miss Lanai I\rquote m here?\'94
\par \'93I\rquote ll try, Doc; but that Pete character has been watching her like a piece of prize property all afternoon. Not that I wouldn\rquote t do the same thing myself, you understand.\'94
\par White teeth flashed in the smoke-layered shadows. The busboy turned, weaved his way back through the tables. The murmuring undercurrent of voices in the room damped out. Eric turne
d toward the stage. A portly man in ebony and chalk-striped coveralls bent over the microphone.
\par \'93Here\rquote s what you\rquote ve been waiting for,\'94 he said. He gestured with his left hand. Spotlights erased a shadow, revealing Colleen Lanai, her hands clasped in front 
of her. An old-fashioned gown of electric blue to match her eyes sheathed the full curves.
\par \'93Colleen Lanai!\'94
\par Applause washed over the room, subsided. The portly man gestured with his right hand. Other spotlights flared, revealing Pete Serantis in black coveralls, leaning on his cane.
\par \'93Pete Serantis and\emdash \'94
\par He waited for a lesser frenzy of clapping to subside,
\par \'93\'85The Musikron!\'94
\par A terminal spotlight illuminated a large metallic box behind Pete. The thin man limped around the box, ducked, and disappeared inside. Colleen took the microphone from the announcer, who bowed and stepped off the stage.
\par Eric became aware of a pressing mood of urgency in the room. He thought, \'93For a brief instant we forget our fears, forget the Syndrome, everything except the music and this instant.\'94
\par Colleen held the microphone intimately close to her mouth.
\par \'93We have some more real oldies for you tonight,\'94 she said. An electric pressure of personality pulsed out from her. \'93Two of these songs we\rquote ve never presented before. First, a trio\emdash \lquote Terrible Blues\rquote 
 with the musikron giving you a basic recording by Clarence Williams and the Red Onion Jazz Babies, Pete Serantis adding an entirely new effect; next, \lquote Wild Man Blues\rquote  and the trumpet is pure Louis Armstrong; last, \lquote Them\rquote 
s Graveyard Words,\rquote  an old Bessie Smith special.\'94 She bowed almost imperceptibly.
\par Music appeared in the room, not definable as to direction. It filled the senses. Colleen began to sing, seemingly without effort. She played her voice like a horn, soaring with the music, ebbing with it, caressing the air with it.
\par Eric stared, frozen, with all the rest of the audience.
\par She finished the first song. The noise of applause deafened him. He felt pain in his hands, looked down to find himself beating his palms together. He stopped, shook hi
s head, took four deep breaths. Colleen picked up the thread of a new melody. Eric narrowed his eyes, staring at the stage. Impulsively, he put his hands to his ears and felt panic swell as the music remained undiminished. He closed his eyes, caught his b
reath as he continued to see Colleen, blurred at first, shifting, then in a steady image from a place nearer and to the left.
\par A wavering threnody of emotions accompanied the vision. Eric put his hands before his eyes. The image remained. He opened his eyes.
 The image again blurred, shifted to normal. He searched to one side of Colleen for the position from which he had been seeing her. He decided it could only be from inside the musikron and at the instant of decision discerned the outline of a mirror panel
 in the face of the metallic box.
\par \'93Through a one-way glass,\'94 he thought. \'93Through Pete\rquote s eyes.\'94
\par He sat, thinking, while Colleen finished her third number. Pete emerged from the musikron to share the applause. Colleen blew a kiss to the audience.
\par \'93We\rquote ll be back in a little while.\'94
\par She stepped down from the stage, followed by Pete; darkness absorbed them. Waiters moved along the tables. A drink was placed on Eric\rquote s table. He put money in the tray. A blue shadow appeared across from him, slipped into the chair.
\par \'93Tommy told me you were here\'85 the busboy.\'94 She leaned across the table. \'93You mustn\rquote t let Pete see you. He\rquote s in a rage, a real pet. I\rquote ve never seen anybody that angry.\'94
\par Eric leaned toward her, caught a delicate exhalation of sandalwood perfume. It dizzied him. \'93I want to talk to you,\'94 he said. \'93Can you meet me after the show?\'94
\par \'93I guess I can trust you,\'94 she said. She hesitated, smiling faintly. \'93You\rquote re the professional type.\'94 Another pause. \'93And I think I need professional advice.\'94 She slipped out of the chair, stood up. \'93
I have to get back before he suspects I didn\rquote t go to the powder room. I\rquote ll meet you near the freight elevator upstairs.\'94
\par She was gone.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 A cold breeze off the bay tugged at Eric
\rquote s cape, puffing out behind him. He leaned against the concrete r
ailing, drawing on a cigarette. The glowing coal flowed an orange wash across his face, flaring, dimming. The tide rip sniggled and babbled; waves lap-lap-lapped at the concrete beneath him. A multi-colored glow in the water to his left winked out as the 
illumabeams above the Gweduc Room were extinguished. He shivered. Footsteps approached from his left, passed behind him\emdash 
a man, alone. A muffled whirring sound grew, stopped. Light footsteps ran toward him, stopped at the rail. He smelled her perfume. \'93Thanks,\'94 he said.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 \'93I can\rquote t be long. He\rquote 
s suspicious. Tommy brought me up the freight elevator. He\rquote s waiting.\'94
\par \'93I\rquote ll be brief. I\rquote ve been thinking. I\rquote m going to talk about travel. I\rquote m going to tell you where you\rquote ve been since you hooked up with Pete in Honolulu.\'94 He turned, leaned sideways against the railing. \'93
You tried your show first in Santa Rosa, California, the sticks; then you went to Piquetberg, Karachi, Reykjavik, Portland, Hollandia, Lawton\emdash finally, Los Angeles. Then you came here.\'94
\par \'93So you looked up our itinerary.\'94
\par He shook his head. \'93No.\'94 He hesitated. \'93Pete\rquote s kept you pretty busy rehearsing, hasn\rquote t he?\'94
\par \'93This isn\rquote t easy work.\'94
\par \'93I\rquote m not saying it is.\'94 He turned back to the rail, nipped his cigarette into the darkness, heard it hiss in the water. \'93How long have you known Pete?\'94
\par \'93A couple of months more or less. Why?\'94
\par He turned away. \'93What kind of a fellow is he?\'94
\par She shrugged. \'93He\rquote s a nice guy. He\rquote s asked me to marry him.\'94
\par Eric swallowed. \'93Are you going to?\'94
\par She looked out to the dark bay. \'93That\rquote s why I want your advice. I don\rquote t know\'85 I just don\rquote t know. He put me where I am, right on top of the entertainment heap.\'94 She turned back to Eric. \'93And he really is an awfully nice guy
\'85 when you get under that bitterness.\'94
\par Eric breathed deeply, pressed against the concrete railing. \'93May I tell you a story?\'94
\par \'93What about?\'94
\par \'93This morning you mentioned Dr. Carlos Amanti, the inventor of the teleprobe. Did you know him?\'94
\par \'93No.\'94
\par \'93I was one of his students. When he had the breakdown it hit all of us pretty hard, but I was the only one who took up the teleprobe project. I\rquote ve been working at it eight years.\'94
\par She stirred beside him. \'93What is this teleprobe?\'94
\par \'93The science writers have poked fun at it; they call it the \lquote mind reader.\rquote  It\rquote s not. It\rquote s just a means of interpreting so
me of the unconscious impulses of the human brain. I suppose some day it may approach mind reading. Right now it\rquote s a rather primitive instrument, sometimes unpredictable. Amanti\rquote 
s intention was to communicate with the unconscious mind, using interpretation of encephalographic waves. The idea was to amplify them, maintain a discrete separation between types, and translate the type variations according to thought images.\'94
\par She chewed her lower lip. \'93And you think the musikron would help make a better teleprobe, that it would help fight the Syndrome?\'94
\par \'93I think more than that.\'94 He looked down at the paving.
\par \'93You\rquote re trying to tell me something without saying it,\'94 she said. \'93Is it about Pete?\'94
\par \'93Not exactly.\'94
\par \'93Why\rquote d you give that long recitation of where we\rquote d been? That wasn\rquote t just idle talk. What are you driving at?\'94
\par He looked at her speculatively, weighing her mood. \'93Hasn\rquote t Pete told you about those places?\'94
\par She put a hand to her mouth, eyes wide, staring. She moaned. \'93Not the Syndrome\'85 not all of those places, too?\'94
\par \'93Yes.\'94 It was a flat, final sound.
\par She shook her head. \'93What are you trying to tell me?\'94
\par \'93That it could be the musikron causing all of this.\'94
\par \'93Oh, no!\'94
\par \'93I could be wrong. But look at how it appears. Amanti was a genius working near the fringe of insanity. He had a psychotic break. Then he helped Pete build a machine. It\rquote s possible that machine picks up the operator\rquote 
s brain-wave patterns, transmits them as a scrambling impulse. The musikron }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 does}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  convert thought into a discernible energy\emdash sound. Why isn
\rquote t it just as possible that it funnels a disturbing impulse directly into the unconscious.\'94 He wet his lips with his tongue. \'93
Did you know that I hear those sounds even with my hands over my ears, see you with my eyes covered. Remember my nightmare? My nervous system is responding to a subjective impulse.\'94
\par \'93Does it do the same thing to everybody?\'94
\par \'93Probably not. Unless a person was conditioned as I have been by spending years in the aura of a similar machine, these impulses would be censored at the threshold of consciousness. They would be repressed as unbelievable.\'94
\par Her lips firmed. She shook her head. \'93I don\rquote t see how all this scientific gobbledy-gook proves the musikron caused the Syndrome.\'94
\par \'93Maybe it doesn\rquote t. But it\rquote s the best possibility I\rquote ve seen. That\rquote s why I\rquote m going to ask a favor. Could you get me the circuit diagrams for the musikron? If I could see them I\rquote 
d be able to tell just what this thing does. Do you know if Pete has plans for it?\'94
\par \'93There\rquote s some kind of a thick notebook inside the musikron. I think that\rquote s what you mean.\'94
\par \'93Could you get it?\'94
\par \'93Maybe, but not tonight\'85 and I wouldn\rquote t dare tell Pete.\'94
\par \'93Why not tonight?\'94
\par \'93Pete sleeps with the key to the musikron. He keeps it locked when it\rquote s not in use; so no one will get inside and get a shock. It has 
to be left on all the time because it takes so long to warm it up. Something about crystals or energy potential or some words like that.\'94
\par \'93Where\rquote s Pete staying?\'94
\par \'93There are quarters down there, special apartments.\'94
\par He turned away, breathed the damp salt air, turned back.
\par Colleen shivered. \'93I know it\rquote s not the musikron. I\'85 they\emdash \'94 She was crying.
\par He moved closer, put an arm around her shoulders, waiting. He felt her shiver. She leaned against him; the shivering subsided.
\par \'93I\rquote ll get those plans.\'94 She moved her head restlessly. \'93That\rquote ll prove it isn\rquote t the musikron.\'94
\par \'93Colleen\'85\'94 He tightened his arm on her shoulders, feeling a warm urgency within him.
\par She moved closer. \'93Yes.\'94
\par He bent his head. Her lips were warm and soft. She clung to him, pulled away, nestled in his arms.
\par \'93This isn\rquote t right,\'94 she said.
\par Again he bent his head. She tipped her head up to meet him. It was a gentle kiss.
\par She pulled away slowly, turned her head toward the bay. \'93It can\rquote t be like this,\'94 she whispered. \'93So quick\emdash without warning.\'94
\par He put his face in her hah\'94, inhaled. \'93Like what?\'94
\par \'93Like you\rquote d found your way home.\'94
\par He swallowed. \'93My dear.\'94
\par Again their lips met. She pulled away, put a hand to his cheek. \'93I have to go.\'94
\par \'93When will I see you?\'94
\par \'93Tomorrow. I\rquote ll tell Pete I have to do some shopping.\'94
\par \'93Where?\'94
\par \'93Do you have a laboratory?\'94
\par \'93At my home in Chalmers Place on the other side of the lake. It\rquote s in the directory.\'94
\par \'93I\rquote ll come as soon as I can get the diagrams.\'94
\par Again they kissed.
\par \'93I really have to go.\'94
\par He held her tightly.
\par \'93Really.\'94 She pulled away. \'93Good night\'94\emdash she hesitated\emdash \'93Eric.\'94 Shadows flowed in around her.
\par He heard the whirring of the elevator, leaned back against the concrete, drawing deep breaths to calm himself.
\par Deliberate footsteps approached from his left. A hand-light flashed in his face, the dull gleam of a night patrolman\rquote s brassard behind the light. The light moved to the caduceus at his breast.
\par \'93You\rquote re out late, doctor.\'94
\par The light returned to his face, winked off. Eric knew he had been photographed\emdash as a matter of routine.
\par \'93Your lipstick\rquote s smudged,\'94 the patrolman said. He walked away past the elevator dome.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
Inside the silent musikron: a thin man, pinched face, hating. Bitter thought: }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Now wasn\rquote t that a sweet love scene!}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  Pause. }{
\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 The doctor wants something to read?}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  Wry smile. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 I\rquote ll}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  provide }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 it. He\rquote ll have something to occupy his mind after we\rquote ve gone.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par Before going to bed, Eric filed a transgraph to Mrs. Bertz, his secretary, telling her to cancel his appointments for the next day. He snuggled up to the pillow, hugging it. Sleep avoided him.
 He practiced Yoga breathing. His senses remained alert. He slipped out of bed, put on a robe and sandals. He looked at the bedside clock\emdash 2:05 A.M., Saturday, May 15, 1999. He thought, }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
Just twenty-five hours ago\emdash nightmare. Now\'85 I don\rquote t know.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  He smiled. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Yes I do; I\rquote m in love. I feel like a college kid.}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 He took a deep breath. }{
\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 I\rquote m in love.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  He closed his eyes and looked at a memory picture of Colleen. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
Eric, if you only solve this Syndrome, the world is yours.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  The thoughts skipped a beat. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 I\rquote m an incipient manic\emdash }{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par Eric ruminated. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 If Pete takes that musikron out of Seattle\emdash  What then?}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par He snapped a finger, went to the vidiphone, called an all-night travel agency. A girl clerk finally agreed to look up the booking dates he wanted\emdash for a special fee. He gave her his bil
ling code, broke the connection and went to the microfilm rack across from the foot of his bed. He ran a finger down the title index, stopped at \'93Implications of Encephalographic Wave Forms, A Study of the Nine Brain Pulses, by Dr. Carlos Amanti.\'94
 He pushed the selector opposite the tape, activated the screen above the rack and returned to his bed, carrying the remote-control unit.
\par The first page flashed on the screen; room lights dimmed automatically. He read:
\par \'93There is a scale of vibratory impulses spanning and exceeding the human auditory range which consistently produce emotional responses of fear in varying degrees. Certain of these vibratory impulses\emdash loosely grouped under the term }{
\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 sounds}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 \emdash test the extremes of human emotional experience. One may say, wit
hin reason, that all emotion is response to stimulation by harmonic movement, by oscillation.
\par \'93Many workers have linked emotions with characteristic encephalographic wave responses: Carter\rquote s work on Zeta waves and love; Reymann on Pi waves and abstract thinking; Poulson on the Theta Wave Index to degrees of sorrow, to name a few.
\par \'93It is the purpose of my work to trace these characteristic responses and point out what I believe to be an entirely new direction for interpretation of\emdash \'94
\par Because of the late hour,
 Eric had expected drowsiness to overtake his reading, but his senses grew more alert as he read. The words had the familiarity of much re-reading, but they still held stimulation. He recalled a passage toward the end of the book, put the film on motor fe
ed and scanned forward to the section he wanted. He slowed the tape, returned the controls to single-page advance; there it was:
\par \'93While working with severely disturbed patients in the teleprobe, I have found a charged emotional feeling in the atmosphere. Ot
hers, unfamiliar with my work, have reported this same experience. This suggests that the characteristic emanations of a disturbed mentality may produce sympathetic reactions upon those within the unshielded field of the teleprobe. Strangely, this disturb
ed sensation sometimes follows by minutes or even hours the period when the patient was under examination.
\par \'93I am hesitant to suggest a theory based upon this latter phenomenon. There is too much we do not know about the teleprobe\emdash its latency period, for ins
tance. However, it is possible that the combination of teleprobe and disturbed personality broadcasts a field with a depressant effect upon the unconscious functions of persons within that field. Be that as it may, this entire field of teleprobe and encep
halographic wave research carries implications which\emdash \'94
\par With a decisive gesture, Eric snapped off the projector, slipped out of bed and dressed. The bedside clock showed 3:28 A.M., Saturday, May 15, 1999. Never in his life had he felt more alert. He took the
 steps two at a time down to his basement lab, flipped on all the lights, wheeled out his teleprobe.
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 I\rquote m on to something,}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  he thought. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
This Syndrome problem is too urgent for me to waste time sleeping.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par He stared at his teleprobe, an open framework of shelves, banks of tubes, maze of wiring, relaxing chair in the center with the metal hemisphere of the pickup directly above the chair. He thought, }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
The musikron is rigged for sound projection; that means a secondary resonance circuit of some kind.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par He pulled an u
nused tape recorder from a rack at the end of his bench, stripped the playback circuit from it. He took the recorder service manual, sketched in the changes he would need, pausing occasionally to figure circuit loads and balances on a slide rule. Presentl
y, not too satisfied with his work, but anxious to get started, he brought out the parts he would need and began cutting and soldering. In two hours he had what he wanted.
\par Eric took cutter pliers, went to the teleprobe, snipped away the recorder circuit, pu
lled it out as a unit. He wheeled the teleprobe cage to the bench and, delicately feeling his way, checking the circuit diagrams as he went, he wired in the playback circuit. From the monitor and audio sides, he took the main leads, fed them back into the
 first bank of the encephalographic pickup. He put a test power source on the completed circuit and began add big resistance units by eye to balance the impedance. It took more than an hour of testing and cutting, required several units of shielding.

\par He stepped back, stared at the machine. He thought, }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 It\rquote s going to oscillate all over the place. How does he balance this monster?}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par Eric pulled at his chin, thinking. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Well, let\rquote s see what this hybrid does.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par The wall clock above his bench showed 6:45 A.M. He took a 
deep breath, hooked an overload fuse into a relay power switch, closed the switch. A wire in the pickup circuit blazed to incandescence; the fuse kicked out. Eric opened the switch, picked up a test meter, and returned to the machine. The fault eluded him
. He went back to the circuit diagrams.
\par \'93Perhaps too much power\emdash \'94 He recalled that his heavy duty rheostat was at a shop being repaired, considered bringing out the auxiliary generator he had used on one experiment. The generator was beneath a pile of boxes
 in a corner. He put the idea temporarily aside, turned back to the teleprobe.
\par \'93If I could just get a look at that musikron.\'94
\par He stared at the machine. \'93A resonance circuit\emdash What else?\'94 He tried to imagine the interrelationship of the components, fitting himself into the machine.
\par \'93I\rquote m missing it some place! There\rquote s some other thing and I have the feeling I already know it, that I\rquote ve heard it. I\rquote ve got to see the diagrams on that musikron.\'94
\par He turned away, went out of the lab and climbed the stairs to his kit
chen. He took a coffee capsule from a package in the cupboard, put it beside the sink. The vidiphone chimed. It was the clerk from the travel bureau. Eric took down her report, thanked her, broke the connection. He did a series of subtractions.
\par \'93Twenty-eight hour time lag,\'94 he thought. \'93Every one of them. That\rquote s too much of a coincidence.\'94
\par He experienced a moment of vertigo, followed by weariness. \'93I\rquote d better get some rest. I\rquote ll come back to this thing when I\rquote m more alert.\'94
\par He padded into the bedroom, sat d
own on the bed, kicked off his sandals and lay back, too tired to undress. Sleep eluded him. He opened his eyes, looked at the clock: 7:00 A.M. He sighed, closed his eyes, sank into a somnolent state. A niggling worry gnawed at his consciousness. Again he
 opened his eyes, looked at the clock: 9:50 A.M. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 But I didn\rquote t feel the time pass,}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  he thought. }{
\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 I must have slept.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  He closed his eyes. His senses drifted into dizziness, the current in a stream, a ship on the current, wandering, hunting, whirling.

\par He thought, }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 I hope he didn\rquote t see me leave.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par His eyelids snapped open and, for a moment, he saw a unitube entrance on the ceiling above his head. He shook his head.
\par \'93That was a crazy thought. Where\rquote d that come from?\'94 he asked himself. \'93I\rquote ve been working too hard.\'94
\par He turned on his side, returned to the somnolent state, his eyes drooping closed. Instantly, he had the sensation of being in a maze of wires; an emotion of hate surged over him so strongly it brought panic because he couldn\rquote 
t explain it or direct it at anythi
ng. He gritted his teeth, shook his head, opened his eyes. The emotion disappeared, leaving him weak. He closed his eyes. Into his senses crept an almost overpowering aroma of gardenias, a vision of dawnlight through a shuttered window. His eyelids snappe
d open; he sat up in the bed, put his head in his hands.
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Rhinencephalic stimulation,}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  he thought. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Visual stimulation\'85 auditory stimulation\'85
 nearly total sensorium response. It means something. But what does it mean?}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  He shook his head, looked at the clock: 10:10 A.M.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
Outside Karachi, Pakistan, a Hindu holy man squatted in the dust beside an ancient road. Past him paraded a caravan of International Red Cross trucks, moving selected cases of Syndrome madness to the skytrain field on the Indus delta. Tomorrow the
 sick would be studied at a new clinic in Vienna. The truck motors whined and roared; the ground trembled. The holy man drew an ancient symbol with a finger in the dust. The wind of a passing truck stirred the pattern of Brahmaputra, twisting it. The holy
 man shook his head sadly.
\par Eric\rquote s front door announcer chimed as someone stepped onto the entrance mat. He clicked the scanner switch at his bedside, looked to the bedroom master screen; Colleen\rquote s face appeared on the screen. He punched for the door release
, missed, punched again, caught it. He ran his hands through his hair, snapped the top clip of his coveralls, went to the entrance hall.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
Colleen appeared tiny and hesitant standing in the hall. As he saw her, something weblike, decisive, meshed inside him\emdash a completeness.
\par He thought, }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Boy, in just one day you are completely on the hook.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par \'93Eric,\'94 she said.
\par Her body\rquote s warm softness clung to him. Fragrance wafted from her hair.
\par \'93I missed you,\'94 he said.
\par She pulled away, looked up. \'93Did you dream about me?\'94
\par He kissed her. \'93Just a normal dream.\'94
\par \'93Doctor!\'94
\par A smile took the sting out of the exclamation. She pulled away, slipped off her fur-lined cape. From an inner pocket of the cape she extracted a flat blue booklet. \'93Here\rquote s the diagram. Pete didn\rquote t suspect a thing.\'94
\par Abruptly, she reeled toward him, clutched at his arm, gasping.
\par He steadied her, frightened. \'93What\rquote s the matter, darling?\'94
\par She shook her head, drawing deep, shuddering breaths.
\par \'93It\rquote s nothing; just a\'85 little headache.\'94
\par \'93Little headache nothing.\'94 He put the back of his wrist against her forehead. The skin held a feverish warmth. \'93Do you feel ill?\'94
\par She shook her head. \'93No. It\rquote s going away.\'94
\par \'93I don\rquote t like this as a symptom. Have you eaten?\'94
\par She looked up, calmer. \'93No, but I seldom eat breakfast\'85 the waistline.\'94
\par \'93Nonsense! You come in here and eat some fruit.\'94
\par She smiled at him. \'93Yes, doctor\'85 darling.\'94
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 The reflection on the musikron\rquote 
s inner control surfaces gave an underlighted, demoniacal cast to Pete\rquote s face. His hand rested on a relay switch. Hesitant thought: }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 C
olleen, I wish I could control your thoughts. I wish I could tell you what to do. Each time I try, you get a headache. I wish I knew how this machine}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  really }{
\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 works.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par Eric\rquote s lab still bore the cluttered look of his night\rquote s activities. He helped Colleen up to a seat on the edge of the bench, opened the musikron booklet beside her. She looked down at the open pages.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 \'93
What are all those funny looking squiggles?\'94
\par He smiled. \'93Circuit diagram.\'94 He took a test clip and, glancing at the diagram, began pulling leads from the resonance circuit. He stopped, a puzzled frown drawing down his features. He stared at the diagram. \'93That can\rquote t be right.\'94
 He found a scratch pad, stylus, began checking the booklet.
\par \'93What\rquote s wrong?\'94
\par \'93This doesn\rquote t make sense.\'94
\par \'93How do you mean?\'94
\par \'93It isn\rquote t designed for what it\rquote s supposed to do.\'94
\par \'93Are you certain?\'94
\par \'93I know Dr. Amanti\rquote s work. This isn\rquote t the way he works.\'94 He began leafing through the booklet. A page flopped loose. He examined the binding. The booklet\rquote s pages had been razored out and new 
pages substituted. It was a good job. If the page hadn\rquote t fallen out, he might not have noticed. \'93You said it was easy to get this. Where was it?\'94
\par \'93Right out on top of the musikron.\'94
\par He stared at her speculatively.
\par \'93What\rquote s wrong?\'94 Her eyes held open candor.
\par \'93I wish I knew.\'94 He pointed to the booklet. \'93That thing\rquote s as phony as a Martian canal.\'94
\par \'93How do you know?\'94
\par \'93If I put it together that way\'94\emdash a gesture at the booklet\emdash \'93it\rquote d go up in smoke the instant power hit it. There\rquote s only one explanation: Pete\rquote s on to us.\'94
\par \'93But how?\'94
\par \'93That\rquote s what I\rquote d like to know\'85 how he anticipated you\rquote d try to get the diagram for me. Maybe that busboy\emdash \'94
\par \'93Tommy? But he\rquote s such a nice young fellow.\'94
\par \'93Yeah. He\rquote d sell his mother if the price was right. He could have eavesdropped last night.\'94
\par \'93I can\rquote t believe it.\'94 She shook her head.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
In the webwork of the musikron, Pete gritted his teeth. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Hate him! Hate him!}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
 He pressed the thought at her, saw it fail. With a violent motion, he jerked the metal hemisphere off his head, stumbled out of the musikron. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 You\rquote re not going to have her! If it\rquote 
s a dirty fight you want, I\rquote ll really show you a dirty fight!}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par Colleen asked, \'93Isn\rquote t there some other explanation?\'94
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 \'93Can you think of one?\'94
\par She started to slide down from the bench, hesitated, lurched against him, pressing her head against his chest \'93My head\'85 my head\emdash \'94 She went limp in his arms, shuddered, recovered slowly, drew gasping breaths. She stood up. \'93Thank you.
\'94
\par In a corner of the lab was a canvas deck chair. He led her over to it, eased her down. \'93You\rquote re going to a hospital right now for a complete check-up\emdash tracers, the works. I don\rquote t like this.\'94
\par \'93It\rquote s just a headache.\'94
\par \'93Peculiar kind of a headache.\'94
\par \'93I\rquote m not going to a hospital.\'94
\par \'93Don\rquote t argue. I\rquote m calling for reservations as soon as I can get over to the phone.\'94
\par \'93Eric, I won\rquote t do it!\'94 She pushed herself upright in the chair. \'93I\rquote ve seen all the doctors I want to see.\'94 She hesitated, looked up at him. \'93Except you. I\rquote ve had all those tests. There\rquote s nothing wrong with me\'85
 except something in my head.\'94 She smiled. \'93I guess I\rquote m talking to the right kind of a doctor for that.\'94
\par She lay back, resting, closed her eyes. Eric pulled up a stool, sat down beside her, holding her hand. Colleen appeared to sink into a light sleep, breathing evenly. Minutes passed.
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 If the teleprobe wasn\rquote t practically dismantled, I could test her,}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  he thought.
\par She stirred, opened her eyes.
\par \'93It\rquote s that musikron,\'94 he said. He took her arm. \'93Did you ever have headaches like this before you began working with that thing?\'94
\par \'93I had headaches, but\'85 well, they weren\rquote t this bad.\'94 She shuddered. \'93I kept having horrible dreams last night about all those poor people going insane. I kept waking up. I wanted to go in and have it out with Pete.\'94
 She put her hands over her face. \'93How can you be certain it\rquote s the musikron? You can\rquote t be sure. I won\rquote t believe it! I can\rquote t.\'94
\par Eric stood up, went to the bench and rummaged under loose parts for a notebook. He returned, tossed the book I too her lap. \'93There\rquote s your proof.\'94
\par She looked at the book without opening it. \'93What is this?\'94
\par \'93It\rquote s some figures on your itinerary. I had a travel bureau check your departure times. From the time Pete would have been shutting down the musikron to the moment all hell broke loose there\rquote 
s an even twenty-eight-hour time lapse. That same time lag is present in each case.\'94
\par She pushed the notebook from her lap. \'93I don\rquote t believe it. You\rquote re making this up.\'94
\par He shook his head. \'93Colleen, what does it mean to you that you have been each place where the Syndrome hit\'85 that there was a twenty-eight-hour time lapse in each case. Isn\rquote t that stretching coincidence too far?\'94
\par \'93I know it\rquote s not true.\'94 Her lips thinned. \'93I don\rquote t know what I\rquote ve been thinking of to even consider you were right.\'94 She looked up, eyes withdrawn. \'93It can\rquote t be true. If it was, it would mea
n Pete planned the whole thing. He\rquote s just not that kind of a guy. He\rquote s nice, thoughtful.\'94
\par He started to put his hand on her arm. \'93But, Colleen, I thought\emdash \'94
\par \'93Don\rquote t touch me. I don\rquote t care what you thought, or what I thought. I think you\rquote ve been using your psychological ability to try to turn me away from Pete.\'94
\par He shook his head, again tried to take her arm.
\par She pulled away. \'93No! I want to think and I can\rquote t think when\'85 when you touch me.\'94 She stared at him. \'93I believe you\rquote re just jealous of Pete.\'94
\par \'93That\rquote s not\emdash \'94
\par A motion at the lab door caught his eye, stopped him. Pete stood there, leaning on his cane.
\par Eric thought, }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 How did he get there? I didn\rquote t hear a thing. How long has he been there?}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  He stood up.
\par Pete stepped forward. \'93You forgot to latch your door, doctor.\'94 He looked at Colleen. \'93Common enough thing. I did, too.\'94 He limped into the room, cane tapping methodically. \'93You were saying something about jealousy.\'94 A pause. \'93
I understand about jealousy.\'94
\par \'93Pete!\'94 Colleen stared at him, turned back to Eric. \'93Eric, I\emdash \'94 She began, and then shrugged.
\par Pete rested both hands on his cane, looked up at Eric. \'93You weren\rquote t going to leave me anything, were you, doctor\emdash the woman I love, the musikron. You were even going to hang me for this Syndrome thing.\'94
\par Eric stopped, retrieved his notebook from the floor.
\par He handed it to Pete, who turned it over, looked at the back.
\par \'93The proof\rquote s in there. There\rquote s a twenty-eight-hour time lag between the moment you leave a community and the moment madness breaks out. You already know it\rquote s followed you around the world. There\rquote s no deviation. I\rquote 
ve checked it out.\'94
\par Pete\rquote s face paled. \'93Coincidence. Figures can lie; I\rquote m no monster.\'94
\par Colleen turned toward Eric, back to Pete. \'93That\rquote s what I told him, Pete.\'94
\par \'93Nobody\rquote s accusing you of being a monster, Pete\'85 yet,\'94 Eric said. \'93You }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 could}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  be a savior. The knowledge that\rquote 
s locked up in that musikron could practically wipe out insanity. It\rquote s a positive link with the unconscious\'85 can be tapped any time. Why, properly shielded\emdash \'94
\par \'93Nuts! You\rquote re trying to get the musikron so you can throw your weight around.\'94 He looked at Colleen. \'93And you sugar-talked her into helping you.\'94 He sneered. \'93It\rquote s not the first time I\rquote 
ve been double-crossed by a woman; I guess I should\rquote ve been a psychiatrist.\'94
\par Colleen shook her head. \'93Pete, don\rquote t talk that way.\'94
\par \'93Yeah\'85 How else do you expect me to talk? You were a nobody; a canary in a hula chorus and I picked you up and set you down right on the top. So what do you do\emdash \'94 He turned away, leaning heavily on the cane. \'93You can have her, Doc; she
\rquote s just your type!\'94
\par Eric put out a hand, withdrew it. \'93Pete! Stop allowing your deformity to deform your reason! It doesn\rquote t matter how we feel about Colleen. We\rquote ve got to think about what the musikron is doing to people! Think of all the unhappiness th
is is causing people\'85 the death\'85 the pain\emdash \'94
\par \'93People!\'94 Pete spat out the word.
\par Eric took a step closer to him. \'93Stop that! You know I\rquote m right. You can have full credit for anything that is developed. You can have full control of it. You can\emdash \'94
\par \'93Don\rquote t try to kid me, Doc. It\rquote s been tried by experts. You and your big words! You\rquote re just trying to make a big impression on baby here. I already told you you can have her. I don\rquote t want her.\'94
\par \'93Pete! You\emdash \'94
\par \'93Look out, Doc; you\rquote re losing your temper!\'94
\par \'93Who wouldn\rquote t in the face of your pig-headedness?\'94
\par \'93So it\rquote s pig-headed to fight a thief, eh, Doc?\'94 Pete spat on the floor, turned toward the door, tripped on his cane and fell.
\par Colleen was at his side. \'93Pete, are you hurt?\'94
\par He pushed her away. \'93I can take care of myself!\'94 He struggled to his feet, pulling himself up on the cane.
\par \'93Pete, please\emdash \'94
\par Eric saw moisture in Pete\rquote s eyes. \'93Pete, let\rquote s solve this thing.\'94
\par \'93It\rquote s already solved, Doc.\'94 He limped through the doorway.
\par Colleen hesitated. \'93I have to go with him. I can\rquote t let him go away like this. There\rquote s no telling what he\rquote ll do.\'94
\par \'93But don\rquote t you see what he\rquote s doing?\'94
\par Anger flamed in her eyes; she stared at Eric. \'93I saw what you did and it was as cruel a thing as I\rquote ve ever seen.\'94 She turned and ran after Pete.
\par Her footsteps drummed up the stairs; the outer door slammed.
\par An empty fibreboard box lay on the floor beside the teleprobe. Eric kicked it across the lab.
\par \'93Unreasonable\'85 neurotic\'85 flighty\'85 irresponsible\emdash \'94
\par He stopped; emptiness grew in his chest. He looked at the teleprobe. \'93Sometimes, there\rquote s no predicting about women.\'94 He went to the bench, picked up a transistor, put it down, pushed a tumble of resistors to the back of the bench. \'93Should
\rquote ve known better.\'94
\par He turned, started toward the door, froze with a thought which forced out all other awareness:
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 What if they leave Seattle?}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par He ran up the stairs three at a time, out the door, stared up and down the street. A jet car sped past with a single occupant. A woman and two children approached from his left. Otherwise, the street was 
empty. The unitube entrance, less than half a block away, disgorged three teenage girls. He started toward them, thought better of it. With the tubes running fifteen seconds apart, his chance to catch them had been lost while he\rquote d nursed his hurt.

\par He re-entered the apartment
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 I have to do something,}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  he thought. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 If they leave, Seattle will go the way of all the others.}
{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  He sat down by the vidiphone, put his finger in the dial, withdrew it.
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 If I call the police, they\rquote ll want proof. What can I show them besides some time-tables?}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  He looked out the window at his left. }{
\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 The musikron! They\rquote ll see\emdash }{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  Again he reached for the dial, again withdrew. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
What would they see? Pete would just claim I was trying to steal it.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par He stood up, paced to the window, stared out at the lake.
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 I could call the society,}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  he thought.
\par He ticked off in his mind the current top officers of the King County Society of Psychiatric Consultants. All of them considered Dr. Eric Ladde a little too successful for one so young; and besides there was the matte
r of his research on the teleprobe; mostly a laughable matter.
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 But I have to do something\'85 the Syndrome\emdash }{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  He shook his head. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 I\rquote 
ll have to do it alone, whatever I do.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  He slipped into a black cape, went outside and headed for the Gweduc Room.
\par A cold wind kicked up whitecaps in the bay, plumed spray onto the waterfront sidewalk. Eric ducked into the elevator, emerged into a lunchroom atmosphere. The girl at the checktable looked up.
\par \'93Are you alone, doctor?\'94
\par \'93I\rquote m looking for Miss Lanai.\'94
\par \'93I\rquote m sorry. You must have passed them outside. She and Mr. Serantis just left.\'94
\par \'93Do you know where they were going?\'94
\par \'93I\rquote m sorry; perhaps if you come back this evening\emdash \'94
\par Eric returned to the elevator, rode up to the street vaguely disquieted. As he emerged from the elevator dome, he saw a van pull away from the service dome. Eric played a hunch, ran toward the service elevator which already was whirring down.
\par \'93Hey!\'94
\par The whirring stopped, resumed; the elevator returned to the street level, in it Tommy, the busboy.
\par \'93Better luck next time, Doc.\'94
\par \'93Where are they?\'94
\par \'93Well\emdash \'94
\par Eric jammed a hand into his coin pocket, fished out a fifty-buck piece, held it in his hand.
\par Tommy looked at the coin, back at Eric\rquote s eyes. \'93I heard Pete call the Bellingham skytrain field for reservations to London.\'94
\par A hard knot crept into Eric\rquote s stomach; his breathing became shallow, quick; he looked around him.
\par \'93Only twenty-eight hours\emdash \'94
\par \'93That\rquote s all I know, Doc.\'94
\par Eric looked at the busboy\rquote s eyes, studying him.
\par Tommy shook his head. \'93Don\rquote t you start looking at me that way!\'94 He shuddered. \'93That Pete give me the creeps; always staring at a guy; sitting around in that machine all day and no noises coming out of it.\'94 Again he shuddered. \'93I
\rquote m glad he\rquote s gone.\'94
\par Eric handed him the coin. \'93You won\rquote t be.\'94
\par \'93Yeah,\'94 Tommy stepped back into the elevator. \'93Sorry you didn\rquote t make it with the babe, Doc.\'94
\par \'93Wait.\'94
\par \'93Yeah?\'94
\par \'93Wasn\rquote t there a message from Miss Lanai?\'94
\par Tommy made an almost imperceptible motion toward the inner pocket of his coveralls. Eric\rquote s trained eyes caught the gesture. He stepped forward, gripped Tommy\rquote s arm.
\par \'93Give it to me!\'94
\par \'93Now look here, Doc.\'94
\par \'93Give it to me!\'94
\par \'93Doc, I don\rquote t know what you\rquote re talking about.\'94
\par Eric pushed his face close to the busboy\rquote s. \'93Did you see what happened to Los Angeles, Lawton, Portland, all the places where the Syndrome hit?\'94
\par The boy\rquote s eyes went wide. \'93Doc, I\emdash \'94
\par \'93Give it to me!\'94
\par Tommy darted his free hand under his coveralls, extracted a thick envelope, thrust it into Eric\rquote s hand.
\par Eric released the boy\rquote s arm. Scrawled on the envelope was: \'93This will prove you were wrong about Pete.\'94 It was signed, \'93Colleen.\'94
\par \'93You were going to keep this?\'94 Eric asked.
\par Tommy\rquote s lips twisted. \'93Any fool can see it\rquote s the plans for the musikron, Doc. That thing\rquote s valuable.\'94
\par \'93You haven\rquote t any idea,\'94 Eric said. He looked up. \'93They\rquote re headed for Bellingham?\'94
\par \'93Yeah.\'94
\par The nonstop unitube put Eric at the Bellingham field in twenty-one minutes. He jumped out, ran to the station, jostling people aside. A skytrain lashed into the air at the far end of the field. Eric missed a step, stumbled, caught his balance.
\par In the depot, people streamed past him away from the ticket window. Eric ran up to the window, leaned on the counter. \'93Next train to London?\'94
\par The girl at the window consulted a screen beside her. \'93There\rquote ll be one at 12:50 tomorrow afternoon, sir. You just missed one.\'94
\par \'93But that\rquote s twenty-four hours!\'94
\par \'93You\rquote d arrive in London at 4:50 P.M., sir.\'94 She smiled. \'93Just a little late for tea.\'94 She glanced at his caduceus.
\par Eric clutched at the edge of the counter, leaned toward her. \'93That\rquote s twenty-nine hours\emdash one hour too late.\'94
\par He pushed himself away from the window, turned.
\par \'93It\rquote s }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 just}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  a four-hour trip, doctor.\'94
\par He turned back. \'93Can I charter a private ship?\'94
\par \'93Sorry, doctor. There\rquote s an electrical storm coming; the traveler beam will have to be shut down. I\rquote m sure you couldn\rquote t get a pilot to go out without the beam. You do understand?\'94
\par \'93Is there a way to call someone on the skytrain?\'94
\par \'93Is this a personal matter, doctor?\'94
\par \'93It\rquote s an emergency.\'94
\par \'93May I ask the nature of the emergency?\rquote \'93
\par He thought a moment, looking at the girl. He thought, }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Same problem here\'85 nobody would believe me.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par He said, \'93Never mind. Where\rquote s the nearest vidiphone? I\rquote ll leave a message for her at Plymouth Depot.\'94
\par \'93Down that hallway to your right, doctor.\'94 The girl went back to her tickets. She looked up at Eric\rquote s departing back. \'93Was it a medical emergency, doctor?\'94
\par He paused, turned. The envelope in his pocket rustled. He felt for the papers, pulled out the envelope. For the second time since Tommy had given them to him, Eric glanced inside at the folded pages of electronic diagrams, some initialed \'93C.A.\'94

\par The girl waited, staring at him.
\par Eric put the envelope back in his pocket, a thought crystallizing. He glanced up at the girl. \'93Yes, it was a medical emergency. But you\rquote re out of range.\'94
\par He turned, strode outside, back to the unitube. He thought about Colleen. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Never trust a neurotic woman. I should have known better than to let my glands hypnotize me.}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par He went down the unitube entrance, worked his way out to the speed strip, caught
 the first car along, glad to find it empty. He took out the envelope, examined its contents during the ride. There was no doubt about it; the envelope contained the papers Pete had razored from the musikron service book. Eric recognized Dr. Amanti
\rquote s characteristic scrawl.
\par The wall clock in his lab registered 2:10 P.M. as Eric turned on the lights. He took a blank sheet of paper from his notebook, wrote on it with grease pencil:
\par \'93DEADLINE, 4:00 P.M., Sunday, May 16th.\'94
\par He tacked the sheet above his bench, spread out the circuit diagrams from the envelope. He examined the first page.
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Series modulation,}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  he thought. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Quarter wave.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
 He ran a stylus down the page, checked the next page. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Multiple phase-reversing.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  He turned to the next page. The stylus paused. He tra
ced a circuit, went back to the first page. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Degenerative feedback.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  He shook his head. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 That
\rquote s impossible! There\rquote d just be a maze of wild harmonics.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  He continued on through the diagrams, stopped and read through the last two pages slowly. He went through the
 circuits a second time, a third time, a fourth time. He shook his head. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 What is it?}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par He could trace the projection of much of the diagram, amazed at the clear simplicity of the ideas. The last ten pages though\emdash  They described a series of faintly familiar c
ircuits, reminding him of a dual frequency crystal calibrator of extremely high osculation. \'9310,000 KC\'94 was marked in the margin. But there were subtle differences he couldn\rquote t explain. For instance, there was a sign for a lower limit.
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 A series of them,}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  he thought. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 The harmonics hunt and change. But it can\rquote 
t be random. Something has to control it, balance it.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par At the foot of the last page was a notation: \'93Important\emdash use only G6 midget variable, C7, C8 dual, 4ufd.\'94
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 They haven\rquote t made tubes in that series for fifty years,}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  he thought. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
How can I substitute?}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par He studied the diagram.
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 I don\rquote t stand a chance of making this thing in time. And if I do; what then?}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  He wiped his forehead. }{
\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Why does it remind me of a crystal oscillator?}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  He looked at the clock\emdash two hours had passed. }{
\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Where did the time go?}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  he asked himself. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 I\rquote 
m taking too much time just learning what this is.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  He chewed his lips, staring at the moving second hand of the clock, suddenly froze. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
The parts houses will be closing and tomorrow\rquote s Sunday!}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par He went to the lab
 vidiphone, dialed a parts house. No luck. He dialed another, checking the call sheet beside the phone. No luck. His fifth call netted a suggestion of a substitute circuit using transistors which might work. Eric checked off the parts list the clerk sugge
sted, gave the man his package tube code.
\par \'93I\rquote ll have them out to you first thing Monday,\'94 the man said.
\par \'93But I have to have them today! Tonight!\'94
\par \'93I\rquote m sorry, sir. The parts are in our warehouse; it\rquote s all locked up tight on Saturday afternoon.\'94
\par \'93I\rquote ll pay a hundred bucks above list price for those parts.\'94
\par \'93I\rquote m sorry, sir; I don\rquote t have authorization.\'94
\par \'93Two hundred.\'94
\par \'93But\emdash \'94
\par \'93Three hundred.\'94
\par The clerk hesitated. Eric could see the man figuring. The three hundred probably was a week\rquote s wages.
\par \'93I\rquote ll have to get them myself after I go off duty here,\'94 the clerk said. \'93What else do you need?\'94
\par Eric leafed through the circuit diagrams, read off the parts lists from the margins. \'93There\rquote s another hundred bucks in it if you get them to me before seven.\'94
\par \'93I get off at 5:30, doctor. I\rquote ll do my best.\'94
\par Eric broke the circuit, returned to his bench, began roughing-in from the diagram with what materials he had. The teleprobe formed the basic element with surprisingly few changes.
\par At 5:40, the dropbell of his transgraph jangled upstairs. Eric put down his soldering iron, went upstairs, pulled out the tape. His hands trembled when he saw the transmission station. London. He read:
\par \'93Don\rquote t ever try to see me again. Your suspicions are entirely unfounded as you probably know by now. Pete and I to be married Monday. Colleen.\'94
\par He sat down at the transmitter, punched out a message to American Express, coding it urgent for delivery to Colleen Lanai.
\par \'93Colleen: If you can\rquote t think of me, please think of what this means to a city full of people. Bring Pete and that machine back before it\rquote s too late. You can\rquote t be this inhuman.\'94
\par He hesitated before signing it, punched out, \'93I love you.\'94 He signed it, \'93Eric.\'94
\par He thought, }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 You damn fool, Eric. After the way she ran out on you.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par He went into the kitchen,
 took a capsule to stave off weariness, ate a dinner of pills, drank a cup of coffee. He leaned back against the kitchen drainboard, waiting for the capsule to take hold. His head cleared; he washed his face in cold water, dried it, returned to the lab.

\par The front door announcer chimed at 6:42 P.M. The screen showed the clerk from the parts house, his arms gripping a bulky package. Eric punched the door release, spoke into the tube: \'93First door on your left, downstairs.\'94
\par The back wall of his bench suddenly wavered, the lines of masonry rippling; a moment of disorientation surged through him. He bit his lip, holding to the reality of the pain.
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 It\rquote s too soon,}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  he thought. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Probably my own nerves; I\rquote m too tense.}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par An idea on the nature of the Syndrome flashed into his mind. He pulled a scratch pad to him, scribbled, \'93Loss of unconscious autonomy; overstimulation subliminal receptors; gross perception\emdash petit perception. Check C. G. Jung\rquote 
s collective unconscious.\'94
\par Footsteps tapped down the stairway.
\par \'93This the place?\'94
\par The clerk was a taller man than he had expected. An air of near-adolescent eagerness played across the man\rquote s features as he took in the lab. \'93What a layout!\'94
\par Eric cleared a space on the bench. \'93Put that stuff right here.\'94 Eric\rquote s eyes focused on the clerk\rquote s delicately sensitive hands. The man slid the box onto the bench, picked up a fixed crystal oscillator from beside the box, examined it.

\par \'93Do you know anything about electronic hookups?\'94 Eric asked.
\par The clerk looked up, grinned. \'93W7CGO. I\rquote ve had my own ham station over ten years.\'94
\par Eric offered his hand. \'93I\rquote m Dr. Eric Ladde.\'94
\par \'93Baldwin Platte\'85 Baldy.\'94 He ran one of his sensitive hands through thinning hair.
\par \'93Glad to know you, Baldy. How\rquote d you like to make a thousand bucks over what I\rquote ve already promised you?\'94
\par \'93Are you kidding, Doc?\'94
\par Eric turned his head, looked at the framework of the teleprobe. \'93If that thing isn\rquote t finished and ready to go by four o\rquote clock tomorrow afternoon, Seattle will go the way of Los Angeles.\'94
\par Baldy\rquote s eyes widened; he looked at the framework. \'93The Syndrome? How can\emdash \'94
\par \'93I\rquote ve discovered what caused the Syndrome\'85 a machine like this. I have to build a copy of that machine and get it working. Otherwise\emdash \'94
\par The clerk\rquote s eyes were clear, sober. \'93I saw your nameplate upstairs, Doc, and remembered I\rquote d read about you.\'94
\par \'93Well?\'94
\par \'93If you say positive you\rquote ve found out what caused the Syndrome, I\rquote ll take your word for it. Just don\rquote t try to explain it to me.\'94 He looked toward the parts on the bench, back to the teleprobe. \'93Tell me what I\rquote 
m supposed to do.\'94 A pause. \'93And I hope you know what you\rquote re talking about.\'94
\par \'93I\rquote ve found something that just can\rquote t be coincidence,\'94 Eric said. \'93Added to what I know about teleprobes, well\emdash \'94 He hesitated. \'93Yes, I know what I\rquote m talking about.\'94
\par Eric took a small bottle from the rear of his bench, looked at the label, shook out a capsule. \'93Here, take this; it\rquote ll keep you awake.\'94
\par Baldy swallowed the capsule.
\par Eric sorted through the papers on his bench, found the first sheet. \'93Now, here\rquote s what we\rquote re dealing with. There\rquote s a tricky quarter-wave hookup coupled to an amplification factor that\rquote ll throw you back on your heels.\'94

\par Baldy looked over Eric\rquote s shoulder. \'93Doesn\rquote t look too hard to follow. Let me work on that while you take over some of the tougher parts.\'94 He reached for the diagram, moved it to a cleared corner of the bench. \'93What\rquote 
s this thing supposed to do, Doc?\'94
\par \'93It creates a field of impulses which feed directly into the human unconscious. The field distorts\emdash \'94
\par Baldy interrupted him. \'93O.K., Doc. I forgot I asked you not to explain it to me.\'94 He looked up, smiled. \'93I flunked Sociology.\'94 His expression sobered. \'93I\rquote 
ll just work on the assumption you know what this is all about. Electronics I understand; psychology\'85 no.\'94
\par They worked in silence, broken only by sparse questions, muttering. The second hand on the wall clock moved around, around, around; the minute hand followed, and the hour hand.
\par At 8:00 A.M., they sent out for breakfast. The layout of the crystal oscillators still puzzled them. Much of the diagram was scrawled in a radio shorthand.
\par Baldy made the first break in the puzzle.
\par \'93Doc, are these things supposed to make a noise?\'94
\par Eric looked at the diagram. \'93What?\'94 His eyes widened.
\par \'93Of course they\rquote re supposed to make a noise.\'94
\par Baldy wet his lips with his tongue. \'93There\rquote s a special sonar crystal set for depth sounding in submarine detection. This looks faintly like the circuit, but there are some weird changes.\'94
\par Eric tugged at his lip; his eyes glistened. \'93That\rquote s it! That\rquote s why there\rquote s no control circuit! That\rquote s why it looks as though these things would hunt all over the place! The operator is the control\emdash 
his mind keeps it in balance!\'94
\par \'93How\rquote s that?\'94
\par Eric ignored the question. \'93But this means we have the wrong kind of crystals. We\rquote ve misread the parts list.\'94 Frustration sagged his shoulders. \'93And we\rquote re not even halfway finished.\'94
\par Baldy tapped the diagram with a finger. \'93Doc, I\rquote ve got some old surplus sonar equipment at home. I\rquote ll call my wife and have her bring it over. I think there are six or seven sonopulsators\emdash they just might work.\'94
\par Eric looked at the wall clock: 8:28 A.M. Seven and a half hours to go. \'93Tell her to hurry.\'94
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Mrs. \'93Baldy\'94
 was a female version of her husband. She carried a heavy wooden box down the steps, balancing it with an easy nonchalance.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 \'93Hi, Hon. Where\rquote ll I put th
is stuff?\'94
\par \'93On the floor\'85 anywhere. Doc, this is Betty.\'94
\par \'93How do you do.\'94
\par \'93Hiya, Doc. There\rquote s some more stuff in the car. I\rquote ll get it.\'94
\par Baldy took her arm. \'93You better let me do it. You shouldn\rquote t be carrying heavy loads, especially down stairs.\'94
\par She pulled away. \'93Go on. Get back to your work. This is good for me\emdash I need the exercise.\'94
\par \'93But\emdash \'94
\par \'93But me no buts.\'94 She pushed him.
\par He returned to the bench reluctantly, looking back at his wife. She turned at the doorway and looked at Baldy. \'93You look pretty good for being up all night, Hon. What\rquote s all the rush?\'94
\par \'93I\rquote ll explain later. You better get that stuff.\'94
\par Baldy turned to the box she had brought, began sorting through it. \'93Here they are.\'94 He lifted out two small plastic cases, handed them to Eric, pulled out ano
ther, another. There were eight of them. They lined the cases up on the bench. Baldy snapped open the cover of the first one.
\par \'93They\rquote re mostly printed circuits, crystal diode transistors and a few tubes. Wonderful engineering. Don\rquote t know what the dickens I ever planned to do with them. Couldn\rquote t resist the bargain. They were two bucks apiece.\'94
 He folded back the side plate. \'93Here\rquote s the crys\emdash Doc!\'94
\par Eric bent over the case.
\par Baldy reached into the case. \'93What were those tubes you wanted?\'94
\par Eric grabbed the circuit diagram, ran his finger down the parts list. \'93C6 midget variable, C7, C8 dual, 4ufd.\'94
\par Baldy pulled out a tube. \'93There\rquote s your C6.\'94 He pulled out another. \'93There\rquote s your C8.\'94 Another. \'93Your C7.\'94 He peered into the works. \'93There\rquote s a third stage in here I don\rquote t think\rquote 
ll do us any good. We can rig a substitute for the 4ufd component.\'94
\par Baldy whistled tonelessly through his teeth. \'93No wonder that diagram looked familiar. It was based on this wartime circuit.\'94
\par Eric felt a moment of exultation, sobered when he looked at the wall clock: 9:04 A.M.
\par He thought, \'93We have to work faster or we\rquote ll never make it in time. Less than seven hours to go.\'94
\par He said, \'93Let\rquote s get busy. We haven\rquote t much time.\'94
\par Betty came down the stairs with another box. \'93You guys eaten?\'94
\par Baldy didn\rquote t look up from dismantling the second plastic box. \'93Yeah, but you might make us some sandwiches for later.\'94
\par Eric looked up from another of the plastic boxes. \'93Cupboard upstairs is full of food.\'94
\par Betty turned, clattered up the stairs.
\par Baldy glanced at Eric out of the corners of his eyes. \'93Doc, don\rquote t say anything to Betty about the reason for all this.\'94 He turned his attention back to the box, working methodically. \'93We\rquote 
re expecting our first son in about five months.\'94 He took a deep breath. \'93You\rquote ve got me convinced.\'94 A drop of perspiration ran down his nose, fell onto his hand. He wiped his hand on his shirt. \'93This has gotta work.\'94
\par Betty\rquote s voice echoed down the stairs: \'93Hey, Doc. Where\rquote s your can opener?\'94
\par Eric had his head and shoulders inside the teleprobe. He pulled back, shouted, \'93Motor-punch to the left of the sink.\'94
\par Muttering, grumbling, clinking noises echoed down from the kitchen. Presently, Betty appeared with a plate of sandwiches, a red-tinted bandage on her left thumb. \'93Broke your paring knife,\'94 she said. \'93Those mechanical gadgets scare me.\'94
 She looked fondly at her husband\rquote s back. \'93He\rquote s just as gadget happy as you are, Doc. If I didn\rquote t watch him like a spy-beam my nice old kitchen would be an electronic nightmare.\'94 She upended an empty box, put the plate
 of sandwiches on it. \'93Eat when you get hungry. Anything I can do?\'94
\par Baldy stepped back from the bench, turned. \'93Why don\rquote t you go over to Mom\rquote s for the day?\'94
\par \'93The whole day?\'94
\par Baldy glanced at Eric, back at his wife. \'93The Doc\rquote s paying me fourteen hundred bucks for the day\rquote s work. That\rquote s our baby money; now run along.\'94
\par She made as though to speak, closed her mouth, walked over to her husband, kissed his cheek. \'93O.K., Hon. Bye.\'94 She left
\par Eric and Baldy went on with their work, the pressure mounting with each clock tick. They plodded ahead, methodically checking each step.
\par At 3:20 P.M., Baldy released test clips from half of the new resonance circuit, glanced at the wall clock. He stopped, looked back at the teleprobe, weighing the work yet to be done. Eric lay o
n his back under the machine, soldering a string of new connections.
\par \'93Doc, we aren\rquote t going to make it.\'94 He put the test meter on the bench, leaned against the bench. \'93There just isn\rquote t enough time.\'94
\par An electronic soldering iron skidded out from under the te
leprobe. Eric squirmed out behind it, looked up at the clock, back at the unconnected wires of the crystal circuits. He stood up, fished a credit book from his pocket, wrote out a fourteen hundred buck credit check to Baldwin Platte. He tore out the check
, handed it to Baldy.
\par \'93You\rquote ve earned every cent of this, Baldy. Now beat it; go join your wife.\'94
\par \'93But\emdash \'94
\par \'93We haven\rquote t time to argue. Lock the door after you so you can\rquote t get back in if\emdash \'94
\par Baldy raised his right hand, dropped it. \'93Doc, I can\rquote t\emdash \'94
\par \'93It\rquote s all right, Baldy.\'94 Eric took a deep breath. \'93I kind of know how I\rquote ll go if I\rquote m too late.\'94 He stared at Baldy. \'93I don\rquote t know about you. You might, well\emdash \'94 He shrugged.
\par Baldy nodded, swallowed. \'93I guess you\rquote re right, Doc.\'94 His lips worked. Abruptly, he turned, ran up the stairs. The outside door slammed.
\par Eric turned back to the teleprobe, picked up an open lead to the crystal circuits, matched it to its receptor, ran a drop of solder across the connection. He moved to the next crystal unit, the next\emdash 
\par At one minute to four he looked at the clock. More than an hour\rquote s work remained on the teleprobe and then\emdash  He didn\rquote 
t know. He leaned back against the bench, eyes filmed by fatigue. He pulled a cigarette from his pocket, pressed the igniter, took a deep drag. He remembered Colleen\rquote s question: \'93What\rquote s it like to be insane?\'94
 He stared at the ember on his cigarette.
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Will I tear the teleprobe apart? Will I take a gun, go hunting for Colleen and Pete? Will I run out\emdash }{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  The clock behind him clicked. He tensed. }
{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 What will it be like?}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  H
e felt dizzy, nauseated. A wave of melancholia smothered his emotions. Tears of self-pity started in his eyes. He gritted his teeth. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 I\rquote m not insane\'85 I\rquote m not insane\emdash }{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  He dug his fingernails into his palms, drew in deep, shuddering breaths. Uncertain thoughts wandered through his mind.
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 I shall faint\'85 the incoherence of morosis\'85 demoniacal possession\'85 dithyrambic dizziness\'85 an animal figure concretionized out of the libido\'85 corybantic calenture\'85 mad as a March hare
\emdash }{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par His head sagged forward.
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 \'85Non compos mentis\'85 aliene\'85 avoir le diable au corps\emdash  What has happened to Seattle? What has happened to Seattle? What has\emdash }{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
 His breathing steadied; he blinked his eyes. Everything appeared unchanged\'85 unchanged\'85 unchanged\emdash  }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 I\rquote m wandering. I must get hold of myself!}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par The fingers of his right hand burned. He shook away the short ember of his cigarette.
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Was I wrong? What\rquote s happening outside?}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
 He started for the stairs, made it halfway to the door when the lights went out. A tight band ringed his chest. Eric felt his way to the door, 
grasped the stair rail, climbed up to the dim, filtered light of the hall. He stared at the stained glass bricks beside the door, tensed at a burst of gunshots from outside. He sleepwalked to the kitchen, raised on tiptoes to look through the ventilator w
indow over the sink.
\par People! The street swarmed with people\emdash some running, some walking purposefully, some wandering without aim, some clothed, some partly clothed, some nude. The bodies of a man and child sprawled in blood at the opposite curbing.
\par He shook his head, turned, went into the living room. The lights suddenly flashed on, off, on, stayed. He punched video for a news program, got only wavy lines. He put the set on manual, dialed a Tacoma station. Again wavy lines.
\par Olympia was on the air, a newscaster reading a weather report: \'93Partly cloudy with showers by tomorrow afternoon. Temperatures\emdash \'94
\par A hand carrying a sheet of paper reached into the speaker\rquote s field of vision. The newsman stopped, scanned the paper. His hand shook. \'93Attention! Our mobile unit a
t the Clyde Field jet races reports that the Scramble Syndrome has struck the twin cities of Seattle-Tacoma. More than three million people are reported infected. Emergency measures already are being taken. Road blocks are being set up. There are known to
 have been fatalities, but\emdash \'94
\par A new sheet of paper was handed to the announcer. His jaw muscles twitched as he read. \'93A jet racer has crashed into the crowd at Clyde Field. The death toll is estimated at three hundred. There are no available medical faciliti
es. All doctors listening to this broadcast\emdash all doctors\emdash report at once to State disaster headquarters. Emergency medical\emdash \'94 The lights again blinked out, the screen faded.
\par Eric hesitated. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 I\rquote m a doctor. Shall I go outside and do what I can, medically, or shall I go down and finish the teleprobe\emdash now that I\rquote 
ve been proved right? Would it do any good if I did get it working?}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  He found himself breathing in a deep rhythm. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
Or am I crazed like all the others? Am I really doing what I think I\rquote m doing? Am I mad and dreaming a reality?}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  He thought of pinching himself, knew that would be no proof. }{
\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 I have to go ahead as though I\rquote m sane. Anything else}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  really }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 is madness.}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par He chose the teleprobe, located a handlight in his bedroom, returned to the basement lab. He found the lon
g-unused emergency generator under the crates in the corner. He wheeled it to the center of the lab, examined it. The powerful alcohol turbine appeared in working order. The pressure cap on the fuel reservoir popped as he released it. The reservoir was mo
re than half full. He found two carboys of alcohol fuel in the corner where the generator had been stored. He filled the fuel tank, replaced the cap, pumped pressure into the tank.
\par The generator\rquote s power lead he plugged into the lab fuse box. The hand igniter caught on the first spin. The turbine whirred to life, keened up through the sonic range. Lab lights sprang to life, dimmed, steadied as the relays adjusted.
\par It was 7:22 P.M. by the wall clock when he soldered the final connection. Eric estimated a half hour delay before the little generator had taken over, put the time actually at near eight o\rquote 
clock. He found himself hesitant, strangely unwilling to test the completed machine. His one-time encephalorecorder was a weird maze of crossed wiring, emergency s
hielding, crowded tubes, crystals. The only familiar thing remaining in the tubular framework was the half-dome of the head-contact hanging above the test chair.
\par Eric plugged in a power line, linked it to a portable switchbox which he placed in the machine beside the chair. He eased aside a sheaf of wires, wormed his way through, sat down in the chair. He hesitated hand on the switch.
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Am I really sitting here? he wondered. Or is this some trick of the unconscious mind? Perhaps I\rquote m in a corner somewhere with a thumb in my mouth. Maybe I\rquote 
ve torn the teleprobe apart. Maybe I\rquote ve put the teleprobe together so it will kill me the instant I close the switch.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par He looked down at the switch, withdrew his hand. He thought, }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 I can\rquote t just sit here; that\rquote s madness, too.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par He reached up to the helmetlike dome, brought it down over his head. He felt the pinpricks of the contacts as they probed through his hair to his scalp. The narco-needles took hold, deadening skin sensation.
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 This feels like reality,}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  he thought. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 But maybe I\rquote m building this out of memory. It
\rquote s hardly likely I\rquote m the only sane person in the city.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  He lowered his hand to the switch. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 But I have to act as though I am.}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par Almost of its own volition, his thumb moved, depressed the switch. Instantly, a soft ululation hung in the laboratory air. It shifted to dissonance, to harmony, wailing, half-forgotten music, wavered up the scale, down the scale.
\par In Eric\rquote s mind, mottled pictures of insanity threatened to overwhelm his consciousness. He sank into a maelstrom. A brilliant s
pectrograph coruscated before his eyes. In a tiny corner of his awareness, a discrete pattern of sensation remained, a reality to hold onto, to save him\emdash the feeling of the teleprobe\rquote s chair beneath him and against his back.
\par He sank farther into the maelstr
om, saw it change to gray, become suddenly a tiny picture seen through the wrong end of a telescope. He saw a small boy holding the hand of a woman in a black dress. The two went into a hall-like room. Abruptly Eric no longer saw them from a distance but 
was again himself at age nine walking toward a casket. He sensed again the horrified fascination, heard his mother\rquote 
s sobs, the murmurous, meaningless voice sounds of a tall, thin undertaker. Then, there was the casket and in it a pale, waxed creature who lo
oked somewhat like his father. As Eric watched, the face melted and became the face of his uncle Mark; and then another mask, his high-school geometry teacher. Eric thought, }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
We missed that one in my psychoanalysis.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  He watched the mobile face in the coffin 
as it again shifted and became the professor who had taught him abnormal psychology, and then his own analyst, Dr. Lincoln Ordway, and then he fought against this one\emdash Dr. Carlos Amanti.
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 So that\rquote s the father image I\rquote ve held all these years,}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  he thought. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 That means
\emdash  That means I\rquote ve never really given up searching for my father. A fine thing for an analyst to discover about himself!}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  He hesitated. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
Why did I have to recognize that? I wonder if Pete went through this in his musikron?}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  Another part of his mind said, }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
Of course not. A person has to want to see inside himself or he never will, even if he has the opportunity.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par The other part of his mind abruptly seemed to reach up, seize control of his consciousness. His awareness of self lurched aside, became transformed into a mote whipping through his memories so rapidly he could barely distinguish between events.
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Am I dying?}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  he wondered. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Is it my life passing in review?}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par The kaleidoscopic progression jerked to a stop before a vision of Colleen\emdash the way he had seen her in
 his dream. The memory screen lurched to Pete. He saw the two people in a relationship to himself that he had never quite understood. They represented a catalyst, not good or evil, merely a reagent which set events in motion.
\par Suddenly, Eric sensed his awar
eness growing, permeating his body. He knew the condition and action of each gland, each muscle fiber, each nerve ending. He focused his inner eye on the grayness through which he had passed. Into the gray came a tendril of red\emdash 
shifting, twisting, weaving past him. He followed the red line. A picture formed in his mind, growing there like the awakening from anaesthetic. He looked down a long street\emdash dim in the spring dusk\emdash 
at the lights of a jet car thundering toward him. The car grew larger, larger, the lights two hypnotic eyes. With the vision came a thought: }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 My, that\rquote s pretty!}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par Involuntary reactions took over. He sensed muscles tensing, jumping aside, the hot blast of the jet car as it passed. A plaintive thought twisted into his mind: }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Where am I? Where\rquote s Mama? Where
\rquote s Bea?}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par Tightness gripped Eric\rquote s stomach as he realized he sat in another\rquote s consciousness, saw through another\rquote s eyes, sensed through another\rquote 
s nerves. He jumped away from the experience, pulling out of the other mind as though he had touched a hot stove.
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 So that\rquote s how Pete knew so much,}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  he thought. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
Pete sat in his musikron and looked through our eyes.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  Another thought: }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 What am I doing here?}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
 He sensed the teleprobe chair beneath him, heard the new self within him say, \'93I\rquote m going to need more trained, expert help.\'94
\par He followed another red tendril, searching, discarded it; sought another. The orientation was peculiar\emdash no precise up or down or compass points until he looked out of the other eyes. He came to rest finally behind two eyes that looked down f
rom an open window in the fortieth story of an office building, sensed the suicidal thoughts building up pressure within this person. Gently, Eric touched the center of consciousness, seeking the name\emdash Dr. Lincoln Ordway, psychoanalyst.
\par Eric thought, }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Even now I turn back to my own analyst.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par Tensely, Eric retreated to a lower level of the other\rquote s consciousness, knowing that the slightest misstep would precipitate this man\rquote s death wish, a jump through that window. The lower levels suddenly erupted a pinwheel of
 coruscating purple light. The pinwheel slowed, became a mandala figure\emdash 
at the four points of the figure an open window, a coffin, a transitus-tree and a human face which Eric suddenly recognized as a distorted picture of himself. The face was boyish, slightly vacant.
\par Eric thought, }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 The analyst, too, is tied to what he believes is his patient.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
 With the thought, he willed himself to move gently, unobtrusively into the image of himself, began to expand his area of dominion over the other\rquote s unconscious. He push
ed a tentative thought against the almost palpable wall which represented Dr. Ordway\rquote s focus of consciousness: }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Linc}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  (a whisper), }{
\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 don\rquote t jump. Do you hear me, Linc? Don\rquote t jump. The city needs your help.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par With part of his mind, Eric realized that if the analyst sensed his mental privacy being invaded that realization could tip the balance, send the man plunging out the window. Another part of Eric\rquote 
s mind took that moment to render up a solution to why he needed this man and others like him: The patterns of insanity broadcast by Pete Serantis could only be counterbalanced by a rebroadcast of calmness and sanity.
\par Eric tensed, withdrew slightly as he felt the analyst move closer to the window. In the other\rquote s mind, he whispered, \'93Come away from the window. Come away\emdash \'94 Resistance! A white light expanded in Eric\rquote 
s thoughts, rejected him. He felt himself swimming out into the gray maelstrom, receding. A red tendril approached and with it a question, not of his own origin, lifted into his mind:
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Eric? What is this thing?}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par Eric allowed the pattern of teleprobe development to siphon through his mind. He ended the pattern with an explanation of what was needed.
\par Thought: }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Eric, how did the Syndrome miss you?}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Conditioning by long exposure to my own teleprobe; high resistance to unconscious distortion built up by that work.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Funny thing; I was about to dive out the window when I sensed your interference. It was something}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 \emdash the red tendril moved closer\emdash }{
\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 like this.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par They meshed completely.
\par \'93What now?\'94 asked Dr. Ordway.
\par \'93Well need as much trained help as we can find in the city. Others would censor out this experience below the threshold of consciousness.\'94
\par \'93The influence of your teleprobe may quiet everybody.\'94
\par \'93Yes, but if the machine is ever turned off, or if people go beyond its area of influence, they\rquote d be back in the soup.\'94
\par \'93We\rquote ll have to go in the back door of every unconscious in the city and put things in order!\'94
\par \'93Not just }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 this}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  city; every city where the musikron has been and every city where Serantis takes it until we can stop him.\'94
\par \'93How did the musikron do this thing?\'94
\par Eric projected a mixed pattern of concepts and pictures: \'93The musikron pushed us deep down into the collective unconscious, dangled us there as long as we remained within its area of influence. (Picture of rope hanging
 down into swirls of fog.) Then the musikron was turned off. (Picture of knife cutting the rope, the end falling, falling into a swirling gray maelstrom.) Do you see it?\'94
\par \'93If we have to go down into that maelstrom after all these people, hadn\rquote t we better get started?\'94
\par He was a short man digging with his fingers in the soft loam of his flowerbed, staring vacantly at shredded leaves\emdash name, Dr. Harold Marsh, psychologist. Unobtrusively, softly, they absorbed him into the network of the teleprobe.
\par She was a woman, dressed in a thin housecoat, preparing to leap from the end of a pier\emdash name, Lois Voorhies, lay analyst. Swiftly, they drew her back to sanity.
\par Eric paused to follow a thin red tendril to the mind of a neighbor, saw through the other\rquote s eyes sanity returning around him.
\par Like ripples spreading in a pond, a semblance of sanity washed out across the city. Electric power returned; emergency services were restored.
\par The eyes of a clinical psychologist east of the city transmitted a view of a jet plane arrowing toward Clyde Field. Through the psychologist\rquote s mind the network picked up the radiating thought patterns of a woman\emdash guilt, remorse, despair.

\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Colleen!}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par Hesitantly, the network extended a pseudopod of thought, reached into Colleen\rquote s consciousness and found terror. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 What is happening to me!}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par Eric took over. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Colleen, don\rquote t be afraid. This is Eric. We are getting things back in order thanks to you and the musikron plans.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
 He projected the pattern of their accomplishments.
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 I don\rquote t understand. You\rquote re\emdash }{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 You don\rquote t have to understand now.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  Hesitantly: }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 I\rquote m glad you came.}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Eric, I came as soon as I heard\emdash when I realized you were right about Pete and the musikron.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  She paused. }{
\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 We\rquote re coming down to land.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par Colleen\rquote s chartered plane settled onto the runway, rolled up to a hangar and was surrounded by National Guardsmen.
\par She sent out a thought: }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 We have to do something about London. Pete threatened to smash the musikron, to commit suicide. He tried to keep me there by force.}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 When?}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Six hours ago.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Has it been that long since the Syndrome hit?}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par The network moved in: }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 What is the nature of this man Serantis?}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par Colleen and Eric merged thoughts to project Pete\rquote s personality.
\par The network: }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 He\rquote ll not commit suicide, or smash his machine. Too self-centered. He\rquote ll go into hiding. We\rquote ll find him soon enough when we need him\emdash unless he\rquote 
s lynched first.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par Colleen interrupted: }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 This National Guard major won\rquote t let me leave the airport.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Tell him you\rquote re a nurse assigned to Maynard Hospital.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par Individual thought from the network: }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 I\rquote ll confirm from this end.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par Eric: }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Hurry\'85 darling. We need all of the help we can get from people resistant to the teleprobe.}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par Thoughts from the network: }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 That\rquote s as good a rationalization as any. Every man to his own type of insanity. That\rquote s enough nonsense\emdash let\rquote s get to work!}{
\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\qc \li595\ri595\sb1440\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \b\fs48\lang1049\langfe1049\kerning36\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
{\*\bkmkstart _Occupation_Force}{\*\bkmkend _Occupation_Force}Occupation Force
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 He
 was a long time awakening. There was a pounding somewhere. General Henry A. Llewellyn\rquote s eyes snapped open. Someone at his bedroom door. Now he heard the voice. \'93Sir\'85 sir\'85 sir\'85\'94 It was his orderly.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 \'93All right, Watkins, I\rquote 
m awake.\'94
\par The pounding ceased.
\par He swung his feet out of the bed, looked at the luminous dial on his alarm clock\emdash two-twenty-five. What the devil? He slipped on a robe, a tall, ruddy-faced man\emdash chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
\par Watkins saluted when the general opened the door. \'93Sir, the President has called an emergency cabinet meeting.\'94 The orderly began to talk faster, his words running all together. \'93There\rquote 
s an alien spaceship big as Lake Erie sailing around the earth and getting ready to attack.\'94
\par It took a second for the general to interpret the words. He snorted. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Pulp magazine poppycock!}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  he thought.
\par \'93Sir,\'94 said Watkins, \'93there is a staff car downstairs ready to take you to the White House.\'94
\par \'93Get me a cup of coffee while I dress,\'94 said the general.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Representatives of five foreign nation
s, every cabinet officer, nine senators, fourteen representatives, the heads of the secret service, FBI and of all the armed services were at the meeting. They gathered in the conference room of the White House bomb shelter\emdash 
a paneled room with paintings ar
ound the walls in deep frames to simulate windows. General Llewellyn sat across the oak conference table from the President. The buzzing of voices in the room stopped as the President rapped his gavel. An aide stood up, gave them the first briefing.

\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 A Univ
ersity of Chicago astronomer had picked up the ship at about eight P.M. It was coming from the general direction of the belt of Orion. The astronomer had alerted other observatories and someone had thought to notify the government.
\par The ship had arrowed in at an incredible rate, swung into a one-and-one-half-hour orbit around Earth. It was visible to the unaided eye by that time, another moon. Estimates put its size at nineteen miles long, twelve miles wide, vaguely egg-shaped.

\par Spectroscopic analysis showed the drive was a hydrogen ion stream with traces of carbon, possibly from the refractor. The invader was transparent to radar, responded to no form of communication.
\par Majority opinion: a hostile ship on a mission to conquer Earth.
\par Minority opinion: a }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 cautious}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  visitor from space.
\par Approximately two hours after it took up orbit, the ship put out a five-hundred-foot scout which swooped down on Boston, grappled up a man by the name of William R. Jones from a group of night workers waiting for a bus.
\par Some of the minority went over to the majority. The President, however, continued to veto all suggestions that they attack. He was supported by the foreign representatives who were in periodic communication with their governments.
\par \'93Look at the size of the thing,\'94 said the President. \'93An ant with an ant-size pea-shooter could attack an elephant with the same hopes of success we would have.\'94
\par \'93There\rquote s always the possibility they\rquote re just being prudent,\'94 said a State Department aide. \'93We\rquote ve no evidence they\rquote re dissecting this Jones from Boston, as I believe someone suggested.\'94
\par \'93The size precludes peaceful intent,\'94 said General Llewellyn. \'93There\rquote s an invasion army in that thing. We should fire off every atomic warhead rocket we can lay hand to, and\'85\'94
\par The President waved a hand to silence him.
\par General Llewellyn sat back. His throat hurt from arguing, his hand ached from pounding the table.
\par At eight A.M., the spaceship detached a thousand-foot scout as it passed over the New Jersey coast. The scout drifted down over Washington, D.
C. At eight-eighteen A.M., the scout contacted Washington airport in perfect English, asked for landing instructions. A startled tower operator warned the scout ship off until Army units had cleared the area.
\par General Llewellyn and a group of expendable ass
istants were chosen to greet the invaders. They were at the field by eight-fifty-one. The scout, a pale robins-egg blue, settled to a landing strip which cracked beneath it. Small apertures began nicking open and shut on the ship\rquote 
s surface. Long rods protruded, withdrew. After ten minutes of this, a portal opened and a ramp shot out, tipped to the ground. Again silence.
\par Every weapon the armed services could muster was trained on the invader. A flight of jets swept overhead. Far above them, a lone bomber circled, in its belly THE BOMB. All waited for the general\rquote s signal.
\par Something moved in the shadow above the ramp. Four human figures appeared at the portal. They wore striped trousers, cutaways, glistening black shoes, top hats. Their linen shone. Three carried briefcases, one had a scroll. They moved down the ramp.

\par General Llewellyn and aides walked out to the foot of the ramp. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 They look like more bureaucrats,}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  thought the general.
\par The one with the scroll, a dark-haired man with narrow face, spoke first. \'93I have the honor to be the ambassador from Krolia, Loo Mogasayvidiantu.\'94 His English was faultless. He extended the scroll. \'93My credentials.\'94
 General Llewellyn accepted the scroll, said, \'93I am General Henry A. Llewellyn\'94\emdash he hesitated\emdash \'93representative of Earth.\'94
\par The Krolian bowed. \'93May I present my staff?\'94 He turned. \'93Ayk Turgotokikalapa, Min Sinobayatagurki and William R. Jones, late of Boston, Earth.\'94
\par The general recognized the man whose picture was in all of the morning newspapers. }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Here\rquote s our first Solar quisling,}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  he thought.
\par \'93I wish to apologize for the delay in our landing,\'94 said the Krolian ambassador. \'93Occasionally quite a long period of time is permitted to elapse between preliminary and secondary phases of a colonial program.\'94
\par }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Colonial program!}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  thought the general. He almost gave the signal which would unleash death upon this scene. But the ambassador had more to say.
\par \'93The delay in landing was a necessary precaution,\'94 said the Krolian. \'93Over such a long period of time our data sometimes becomes outmoded. We needed time for a sampling, to talk to Mr. Jones, to bring our data up to date.\'94
 Again he bowed with courtly politeness.
\par Now General Llewellyn was confused: }{\cs17\i\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Sampling\'85 data\'85}{\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202  He took a deep breath. Conscious of the weight of history on his shoulders, he said, \'93
We have one question to ask you, Mr. Ambassador. Do you come as friends or conquerors?\'94
\par The Krolian\rquote s eyes widened. He turned to the Earthman beside him. \'93It is as I expected, Mr. Jones.\'94 His lips thinned. \'93That Colonial Office! Understaffed! Inefficient! Bumbling\'85 \'93
\par The general frowned. \'93I don\rquote t understand.\'94
\par \'93No, of course,\'94 said the ambassador. \'93But if our Colonial Office had kept track\'85\'94 He waved a hand. \'93Look around at your people, sir.\'94
\par The general looked first at the men behind the ambassador. O
bviously human. At a gesture from the Krolian, he turned to the soldiers behind himself, then toward the frightened faces of the civilians behind the airport fences. The general shrugged, turned back to the Krolian. \'93
The people of Earth are waiting for the answer to my question. Do you come as friends or conquerors?\'94
\par The ambassador sighed. \'93The truth is, sir, that the question really has no answer. You must surely notice that we are of the same breed.\'94
\par The general waited.
\par \'93It should be obvious to you,\'94 said the Krolian, \'93that we have already occupied Earth\'85 about seven thousand years ago.\'94
\par }\pard\plain \s1\qc \li595\ri595\sb1440\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \b\fs48\lang1049\langfe1049\kerning36\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
{\*\bkmkstart _Old_Rambling_House}{\*\bkmkend _Old_Rambling_House}Old Rambling House
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
On his last night on Earth, Ted Graham stepped out of a glass-walled telephone booth, ducked to avoid a swooping moth that battered itself in a frenzy against a bare globe above the booth.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
Ted Graham was a long-necked man with a head of pronounced egg shape topped by prematurely balding sandy hair. Something about his lanky, intense appearance suggested his occupation: certified public accountant.
\par He stopped behind his wife, who was studying a newspaper classified page, and frowned. \'93They said to wait here. They\rquote ll come get us. Said the place is hard to find at night.\'94
\par Martha Graham looked up from the newspaper. She was a doll-faced woman, heavily pregnant, a kind of, pink prettiness about her. The yellow glow from the light above the booth subdued the red-auburn cast of her ponytail hair.
\par \'93I just have to be in a house when the baby\rquote s born,\'94 she said. \'93What\rquote d they sound like?\'94
\par \'93I dunno. There was a funny kind of interruption - like an argument in some foreign language.\'94
\par \'93Did they sound foreign?\'94
\par \'93In a way.\'94 He motioned along the night-shrouded line of trailers toward one with two windows glowing amber. \'93Let\rquote s wait inside. These bugs out here are fierce.\'94
\par \'93Did you tell them which trailer is ours?\'94
\par \'93Yes. They didn\rquote t sound at all anxious to look at it. That\rquote s odd -them wanting to trade their house for a trailer.\'94
\par \'93There\rquote s nothing odd about it. They\rquote ve probably just got itchy feet like we did.\'94
\par He appeared not to hear her. \'93Funniest-sounding language you ever heard when that argument started - like a squire of noise.\'94
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
Inside the trailer, Ted Graham sat down on the green couch that opened into a double bed for company.
\par \'93They could use a good tax accountant around here,\'94 he said, \'93When I first saw the place, I got that definite feeling. The valley looks prosperous. It\rquote s a wonder nobody\rquote s opened an office here before.\'94
\par His wife took a straight chair by the counter separating kitchen and living area, folded her hands across her heavy stomach. 
\par \'93I\rquote m just continental tired of wheels going around under me,\'94 she said. \'93I want to sit and stare at the same view for the rest of my life. I don\rquote t know how a trailer ever seemed glamorous when -\'94
\par \'93It was the inheritance gave us itchy feet,\'94 he said.
\par Tires gritted on gravel outside.
\par Martha Graham straightened. \'93Could that be them?\'94
\par \'93Awful quick, if it is.\'94 He went to the door, opened it, stared down at the man who was just raising a hand to knock.
\par \'93Are you Mr Graham?\'94 asked the man.
\par \'93Yes.\'94 He found himself staring at the caller.
\par \'93I\rquote m Clint Rush. You called about the house?\'94 The man moved farther into the light. At first, he\rquote d appeared an old man, fine wrinkle lines in his face, a tired leather look to his skin. But as he moved his h
ead in the light, the wrinkles seemed to dissolve - and with them, the years lifted from him.
\par \'93Yes, we called,\'94 said Ted Graham. He stood aside. \'93Do you want to look at the trailer now?\'94
\par Martha Graham crossed to stand beside her husband. \'93We\rquote ve kept it in awfully good shape,\'94 she said. \'93We\rquote ve never let anything get seriously wrong with it.\'94
\par She sounds too anxious, thought Ted Graham. I wish she\rquote d let me do the talking for the two of us.
\par \'93We can come back and look at your trailer tomorrow in daylight,\'94 said Rush. \'93My car\rquote s right out here, if you\rquote d like to see our house.\'94
\par Ted Graham hesitated. He felt a nagging worry tug at his mind, tried to fix his attention on what bothered him.
\par \'93Hadn\rquote t we better take our car?\'94 he asked. \'93We could follow you.\'94
\par \'93No need,\'94 said Rush. \'93We\rquote re coming back into town tonight anyway. We can drop you off then.\'94
\par Ted Graham nodded. \'93Be right with you as soon as I lock up.\'94
\par Inside the car, Rush mumbled introductions. His wife was a dark shadow in the front seat, her hair drawn back in a severe bun. Her features suggested gypsy blood. He called her Raimee.
\par Odd name, thought Ted Graham. And he noticed that she, too, gave that strange first impression of age that melted in a shift of light.
\par Mrs Rush turned her gypsy features toward Martha Graham. \'93You are going to have a baby?\'94
\par It came out as an odd, veiled statement.
\par Abruptly, the car rolled forward.
\par Martha Graham said, \'93It\rquote s supposed to be born in about two months. We hope it\rquote s a boy.\'94
\par Mrs Rush looked at her husband. \'93I have changed my mind,\'94 she said.
\par Rush spoke without taking his attention from the road. \'93It is too ... \'93 He broke off, spoke in a tumble of strange sounds.
\par Ted Graham recognized it as the language he\rquote d heard on the telephone.
\par Mrs Rush answered in the same tongue, anger showing in the intensity of her voice. Her husband replied, his voice calmer.
\par Presently, Mrs Rush fell moodily silent.
\par Rush tipped his head toward the rear of the car. \'93My wife has moments when she does not want to get rid of the old house. It has been with her for many years.\'94
\par Ted Graham said, \'93Oh.\'94 Then: \'93Are you Spanish?\'94
\par Rush hesitated. \'93No. We are Basque.\'94
\par He turned the car down a well-lighted avenue that merged into a highway. They turned onto a side road. There followed more turns - left, right, right.
\par Ted Graham lost track.
\par They hit a jolting bump that made Martha gasp.
\par \'93I hope that wasn\rquote t too rough on you,\'94 said Rush. \'93We\rquote re almost there.\'94
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
The car swung into a lane, its lights picking out the skeleton outlines of trees: peculiar trees - tall, gaunt, leafless. They added to Ted Graham\rquote s feeling of uneasiness.
\par The lane dipped, ended at a low wall of a house - red brick with clerestory windows beneath overhanging eaves. The effect of the wall and a wide-beamed door they could see to the left was ultramodern.
\par Ted Graham helped his wife out of the car, followed the Rushes to the door.
\par \'93I thought you told me it was an old house,\'94 he said.
\par \'93It was designed by one of the first modernists,\'94 said Rush. He fumbled with an odd curved key. The wide door swung open ont
o a hallway equally wide, carpeted by a deep pile rug. They could glimpse floor-to-ceiling view windows at the end of the hall, city lights beyond.
\par Martha Graham gasped, entered the hall as though in a trance. Ted Graham followed, heard the door close behind them.
\par \'93It\rquote s so-so - so big!\'94 exclaimed Martha Graham.
\par \'93You want to trade this for our trailer?\'94 asked Ted Graham.
\par \'93It\rquote s too inconvenient for us,\'94 said Rush. \'93My work is over the mountains on the coast.\'94 He shrugged. \'93We cannot sell it.\'94
\par Ted Graham looked at him sharply. \'93Isn\rquote t there any money around here?\'94 He had a sudden vision of a tax accountant with no customers.
\par \'93Plenty of money, but no real estate customers.\'94
\par They entered the living room. Sectional divans lined the walls. Subdued lighting glowed from the corners. Two paintings hung on the opposite walls - oblongs of odd lines and twists that made Ted Graham dizzy.
\par Warning bells clamored in his mind.
\par Martha Graham crossed to the windows, looked at the light far away below. \'93I had no idea we\rquote d climbed that far,\'94 she said. \'93It\rquote s like a fairy city.\'94
\par Mrs Rush emitted a short, nervous laugh.
\par Ted Graham glanced around the room, thought: If the rest of the house is like this, it\rquote s worth fifty or sixty thousand. He thought of the trailer: A good one, but not worth more than seven thousand.
\par Uneasiness was like a neon sign flashing in his mind. \'93This seems so ... \'93 He shook his head.
\par \'93Would you like to see the rest of the house?\'94 asked Rush.
\par Martha Graham turned from the window. \'93Oh, yes.\'94
\par Ted Graham shrugged. No harm in looking, he thought.
\par When they returned to the living room, Ted Graham had doubled his previous estimate on the house\rquote s value. His brain reeled with the summing of it: a solarium with an entire ceiling covered by sun lamps, an automatic laundry w
here you dropped soiled clothing down a chute, took it washed and ironed from the other end ...
\par \'93Perhaps you and your wife would like to discuss it in private,\'94 said Rush. \'93We will leave you for a moment.\'94
\par And they were gone before Ted Graham could protest.
\par Martha Graham said, \'93Ted, I honestly never in my life dreamed-\'94
\par \'93Something\rquote s very wrong, honey.\'94
\par \'93But, Ted -\'94
\par \'93This house is worth at least a hundred thousand dollars. Maybe more. And they want to trade this - \'94 he looked around him - \'93for a seven-thousand-dollar trailer?\'94
\par \'93Ted, they\rquote re foreigners. And if they\rquote re so foolish they don\rquote t know the value of this place, then why should - \'94
\par \'93I don\rquote t like it,\'94 he said. Again he looked around the room, recalled the fantastic equipment of the house. \'93But maybe you\rquote re right.\'94
\par He stared out at the city lights. They had a lacelike quality: tall buildings linked by lines of flickering incandescence. Something Like a Roman candle shot skyward in the distance.
\par \'93Okay!\'94 he said. \'93If they want to trade, let\rquote s go push the deal ... \'94
\par Abruptly, the house shuddered. The city lights blinked out. A humming sound filled the air.
\par Martha Graham clutched her husband\rquote s arm. \'93Ted! Wha - what was that?\'94
\par \'93I dunno.\'94 He turned. \'93Mr Rush!\'94
\par No answer. Only the humming.
\par The door at the end of t
he room opened. A strange man came through it. He wore a short toga-like garment of gray, metallic cloth belted at the waist by something that glittered and shimmered through every color of the spectrum. An aura of coldness and power emanated from him - a
 sense of untouchable hauteur.
\par He glanced around the room, spoke in the same tongue the Rushes had used.
\par Ted Graham said, \'93I don\rquote t understand you, mister.\'94
\par The man put a hand to his nickering belt. Both Ted and Martha Graham felt themselves rooted to the floor, a tingling sensation vibrating along every nerve.
\par Again the strange language rolled from the man\rquote s tongue, but now the words were understood.
\par \'93Who are you?\'94
\par \'93My name\rquote s Graham. This is my wife. What\rquote s going - \'94
\par \'93How did you get here?\'94 
\par \'93The Rushes - they wanted to trade us this house for our trailer. They brought us. Now look, we - \'94
\par \'93What is your talent - your occupation?\'94 
\par \'93Tax accountant. Say! Why all these - \'94
\par \'93That was to be expected,\'94 said the man. \'93Clever! Oh, excessively clever!\'94 His hand moved again to the belt. \'93Now be very quiet. This may confuse you momentarily.\'94
\par Colored lights filled both the Grahams\rquote  minds. They staggered.
\par \'93You are qualified,\'94 said the man. \'93You will serve.\'94
\par \'93Where are we?\'94 demanded Martha Graham.
\par \'93The coordinates would not be intelligible to you,\'94 he said. \'93I am of the Rojac. It is sufficient for you to know that you are under Rojac sovereignty.\'94
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Ted Graham said, \'93But - \'94
\par \'93You have, in a way, been kidnapped. And the Raimees have fled to your planet - an unregistered planet.\'94
\par \'93I\rquote m afraid,\'94 Martha Graham said shakily.
\par \'93You have nothing to fear,\'94 said the man. \'93You are no longer on the planet of your birth - nor even in the same galaxy.\'94 He glanced at Ted Graham\rquote s wrist. \'93That device on your wrist - it tells your local time?\'94
\par \'93Yes.\'94
\par \'93That will help in the search. And your sun - can you describe its atomic cycle?\'94
\par Ted Graham groped in his mind for his science memories from school, from the Sunday supplements. \'93I can recall that our galaxy is a spiral like - \'94
\par \'93Most galaxies are spiral.\'94
\par \'93Is this some kind of a practical joke?\'94 asked Ted Graham.
\par The man smiled, a cold, superior smile. \'93It is no joke. Now I will make you a proposition.\'94
\par Ted nodded warily. \'93All right, let\rquote s have the stinger.\'94
\par \'93The people who brought you here were ta
x collectors we Rojac recruited from a subject planet. They were conditioned to make it impossible for them to leave their job untended. Unfortunately, they were clever enough to realize that if they brought someone else in who could do their job, they we
re released from their mental bonds. Very clever.\'94
\par \'93But- \'94
\par \'93You may have their job,\'94 said the man. \'93Normally, you would be put to work in the lower echelons, but we believe in meting out justice wherever possible. The Raimees undoubtedly stumbled on your pl
anet by accident and lured you into this position without - \'94
\par \'93How do you know I can do your job?\'94
\par \'93That moment of brilliance was an aptitude test. You passed. Well, do you accept?\'94
\par \'93What about our baby?\'94 Martha Graham worriedly wanted to know.
\par \'93You will be allowed to keep it until it reaches the age of decision - about the time it will take the child to reach adult stature.\'94
\par \'93Then what?\'94 insisted Martha Graham.
\par \'93The child will take its position in society - according to its ability.\'94
\par \'93Will we ever see our child after that?\'94
\par \'93Possibly.\'94
\par Ted Graham said, \'93What\rquote s the joker in this?\'94
\par Again the cold, superior smile. \'93You will receive conditioning similar to that which we gave the Raimees. And we will want to examine your memories to aid us in our search for your planet. It would be good to find a new inhabitable place.\'94
\par \'93Why did they trap us like this?\'94 asked Martha Graham.
\par \'93It\rquote s lonely work,\'94 the man explained. \'93Your house is actually a type of space conveyance that travels along your collection route - and ther
e is much travel to the job. And then - you will not have friends, nor time for much other than work. Our methods are necessarily severe at times.\'94
\par \'93Travel?\'94 Martha Graham repeated in dismay.
\par \'93Almost constantly.\'94
\par Ted Graham felt his mind whirling. And behind him, he heard his wife sobbing.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
The Raimees sat in what had been the Grahams\rquote  trailer.
\par \'93For a few moments, I feared he would not succumb to the bait,\'94 she said. \'93I knew you could never overcome the mental compulsion enough to leave them there without then- first agreeing.\'94
\par Raimee chuckled. \'93Yes. And now I\rquote m going to indulge in everything the Rojac never permitted. I\rquote m going to write ballads and poems.\'94
\par \'93And I\rquote m going to paint,\'94 she said. \'93Oh, the delicious freedom!\'94
\par \'93Greed won this for us,\'94 he said. \'93The long study of the Grahams paid off. They couldn\rquote t refuse to trade.\'94
\par \'93I knew they\rquote d agree. The looks in their eyes when they saw the house! They both had ... \'93 She broke off, a look of horror coming into her eyes. \'93One of them did not agree!\'94
\par \'93They both did. You heard them.\'94
\par \'93The baby?\'94
\par He stared at his wife. \'93But - but it is not at the age of decision.\'94
\par \'93In perhaps eighteen of this planet\rquote s years, it will be at the age of decision. What then?\'94
\par His shoulders sagged. He shuddered. \'93I will not be able to fight it off. I will have to build a transmitter, call the Rojac and confess!\'94
\par \'93And they will collect another inhabitable place,\'94 she said, her voice flat and toneless.
\par \'93I\rquote ve spoiled it,\'94 he said. \'93I\rquote ve spoiled it!\'94
\par }\pard\plain \s1\qc \li595\ri595\sb1440\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \b\fs48\lang1049\langfe1049\kerning36\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
{\*\bkmkstart _GM_Effect}{\*\bkmkend _GM_Effect}GM Effect
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li595\ri595\sb480\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 It was a balmy fall evening and a
s Dr Valeric Sabantoce seated himself at the long table in Meade Hall\rquote 
s basement seminar room, he thought of how the weather would be sensationalized tomorrow by the newspapers and wire services. They would be sure to remark on the general clemency of the elements, pointing out how Nature\rquote 
s smiling aspect made the night\rquote s tragedy so much more horrible.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
Sabantoce was a short, rotund man with a wild shock of black hair that looked as though it had never known a comb. His round face with its look of infant inn
ocence invariably led strangers to an incorrect impression - unless they were at once exposed to his ribald wit or caught the weighted stare of his deeply-socketed brown eyes. 
\par Fourteen people sat around the long table now - nine students and five faculty - with Professor Joshua Latchley in the chairman\rquote s seat at the head. 
\par \'93Now that we\rquote re all here,\'94 Latchley said, \'93I can tell you the purpose of tonight\rquote s meeting. We are faced with a most terrible decision. We ... ahhh \endash  \'94 
\par Latchley fell silent, chewed at h
is lower lip. He was conscious of the figure he cut here - a tall, ungainly bald man in thick-lensed glasses ... the constant air of apology he wore as though it were a shield. Tonight, he felt that this appearance was a disguise. Who could guess - except
 Sabantoce, of course - at the daring exposed by this seemingly innocent gathering? 
\par \'93Don\rquote t leave \lquote em hanging there, Josh,\'94 Sabantoce said. 
\par \'93Yes ... ahh, yes,\'94 Latchley said. \'93It has occurred to me that Dr Sabantoce and I have a special demonstration to present here tonight, but before we expose you to that experiment, as it were, perhaps we should recapitulate somewhat.\'94 
\par Sabantoce, wondering what had diverted Latchley, glanced around the table - saw that they were not all there. Dr Richard Marmon was missing. 
\par Did he suspect and make a break for it? Sabantoce wondered. He realized then that Latchley was stalling for time while Marmon was being hunted out and brought in here. 
\par Latchley rubbed his shiny pate. He had no desire to be here, he thought. But this
 had to be done. He knew that outside on the campus the special 9 p.m. hush had fallen over Yankton Technical Institute and this was his favorite hour for strolling - perhaps up to the frosh pond to listen to the frogs and the couples and to think on the 
etymological derivations of -
\par He became conscious of restless coughing and shuffling around the table, realized he had permitted his mind to wander. He was infamous for it, Latchley knew. He cleared his throat. Where the devil was that Marmon? Couldn\rquote t they find him? 
\par \'93As you know,\'94 Latchley said, \'93we\rquote ve made no particular efforts to keep our discovery secret, although we\rquote 
ve tried to discourage wild speculation and outside discussion. Our intention was to conduct thorough tests before publishing. All of you - both the student ... ahh, \lquote guinea pigs\rquote 
 and your professors of the faculty committee - have been most co-operative. But inevitably news of what we are doing here has spread - sometimes in a very hysterical and distorted manner.\'94 
\par \'93What Professor Latchley is saying,\'94 Sabantoce interrupted, \'93is that the fat\rquote s in the fire.\'94 
\par Expressions of curiosity appeared on the faces of the students who, up to this moment, had been trying to conceal their boredom. Old Dr Inkton had a fit of coughing. 
\par \'93There\rquote s an old Malay expression,\'94 Sabantoce said, \'93that when one plays Bumps-a-Daisy with a porcupine, one is necessarily jumpy. Now, all of us should\rquote ve known this porcupine was loaded.\'94 
\par \'93Thank you, Dr Sabantoce,\'94 Latchley said. \'93I feel ... and I know this is a most unusu
al course ... that all of you should share in the decision that must be made here tonight. Each of you, by participating in this project, has become involved far more deeply here than is the usual case with scientific experiments of this general type. And
 since you student assistants have been kept somewhat in the dark, perhaps Dr Sabantoce, as original discoverer of the GM effect, should fill you in on some of the background.\'94 
\par Stall it is, Sabantoce thought. 
\par \'93Discovery of the genetic memory, or GM effect, was an accident,\'94 Sabantoce said picking up his cue. \'93
Dr Marmon and I were looking for a hormonal method of removing fat from the body. Our Compound 105 had given excellent results on mice and hamsters. We had six generations without apparent side effects and that morning I had decided to try 105 on myself.
\'94 
\par Sabantoce allowed himself a self-deprecating grin, said: \'93You may remember I had a few excess pounds then.\'94 
\par The responsive laughter told him he had successfully lightened the mood which had grown a bit heavy after Latchley\rquote s portentous tone. 
\par Josh is a damn\rquote  fool, Sabantoce told himself. I warned him to keep it light. This is a dangerous business. 
\par \'93It was eight minutes after ten a.m. when I took that first dosage,\'94 Sabantoce said. \'93I remember it was a very pleasant spring morning and I could hear Carl Kychre\rquote 
s class down the hall reciting a Greek ode. In a few minutes I began to feel somewhat euphoric - almost drunk, but very gently so - and I sat down on a lab stool. Presently, I began reciting with Kychre\rquote 
s class, swinging my arm to the rhythm of it. The next thing I knew, there was Carl in the lab door with some students peering in behind him and I realized I might have been a bit loud.\'94 
\par \'93That\rquote s magnificent archaic Greek but it is disturbing my class,\'94 Carl said. 
\par Sabantoce waited for laughter to subside. 
\par \'93I suddenly realized I was two people,\'94 Sabantoce said. \'93I was perfectly aware of where I was and who I was, but I also knew quite certainly that I was a Hoplite soldier named Zagreut recently re
turned from a mercenary venture on Kyrene. It was the double exposure effect that so many of you have remarked. I had all the memories and thoughts of this Hoplite, including his very particular and earthy inclinations toward a female who was uppermost in
 his/my awareness. And there was this other thing we\rquote 
ve all noticed: I was thinking his/my thoughts in Greek, but they were cross-linked to my dominant present and its English-based awareness. I could translate at will. It was a very heady experience, this realization that I was two people.\'94 
\par One of the graduate students said: \'93You were a whole mob, Doctor.\'94 
\par Again, there was laughter. Even old Inkton joined in. 
\par \'93I must\rquote ve looked a bit peculiar to poor Carl,\'94 Sabantoce said. \'93He came into the lab and said: \lquote Are you all right?\rquote 
 I told him to get Dr Marmon down there fast ... which he did. And speaking of Marmon, do any of you know where he is?\'94 
\par Silence greeted the question; then Latchley said: \'93He\rquote s being ... summoned.\'94 
\par \'93So,\'94 Sabantoce said. \'93Well, to get on: Marmon and I locked ourselves in the lab and began exploring this thing. Within a few minutes we found out you could direct the subject\rquote 
s awareness into any stratum of his genetic inheritance, there to be illuminated by an ancestor of his choice; and we
 were caught immediately by the realization that this discovery gave an entirely new interpretation to the concept of instinct and to theories of memory storage. When I say we were excited, that\rquote s the understatement of the century.\'94 
\par The talkative graduate student said: \'93Did the effect fade the way it does with the rest of us?\'94
\par \'93In about an hour,\'94 Sabantoce said. \'93Of course, it didn\rquote t fade completely, as you know. That old Hoplite\rquote s right here with me, so to speak - along with the rest of the mob. A touch o
f 105 and I have him full on - all his direct memories up to the conception-moment of my next ancestor in his line. I have some overlaps, too, and later memories of his through parallel ancestry and later siblings. I\rquote 
m also linked to his maternal line, of 
course - and two of you are tied into this same fabric, as you know. The big thing here is that the remarkably accurate memories of that Hoplite play hob with several accepted histories of the period. In fact, he was our first intimation that much recorde
d history is a crock.\'94 
\par Old Inkton leaned forward, coughed hoarsely, said: \lquote Isn\rquote t it about time, doctor, that we did something about that?\rquote  
\par \'93In a way, that\rquote s why we\rquote re here tonight,\'94 Sabantoce said. And he thought: Still no sign of Marmon. I hope Josh knows what he\rquote s talking about. But we have to stall some more. 
\par \'93Since only a few of us know the full story on some of our more sensational discoveries, we\rquote re going to give you a brief outline of those discoveries,\'94 Sabantoce said. He put on his most disarming smile, gestured to Latchley. \'93
Professor Latchley, as historian-coordinator of that phase in our investigations, can carry on from here.\'94 
\par Latchley cleared his throat, exchanged a knowing look with Sabantoce. Did Marmon suspect? Latchley asked himself. He couldn\rquote t possibly know ... but he might have suspected. 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 \'93
Several obvious aspects of this research method confront one immediately,\'94 Latchley said, breaking his attention away from Sabantoce and the worry about Marmon. \'93As regards any major incident of hi
story - say, a battle - we find a broad selection of subjects on the victorious side and, sometimes, no selection at all on the defeated side. Through the numerous cross references found within even this small group, for example, we find remarkably few ad
jacent and incidental memories within the Troy quadrant of the Trojan wars - some female subjects, of course, but few males. The male bloodlines were virtually wiped out.\'94 
\par Again, Latchley sensed restlessness in his audience and felt a moment of jealousy. Their attention didn\rquote t wander when Sabantoce was speaking. The reason was obvious: Sabantoce gave them the dirt, so to speak. 
\par Latchley forced his apologetic smile, said: \'93Perhaps you\rquote d like a little of the real dirt.\'94 
\par They did perk up, by heaven! 
\par \'93As many have suspected,\'94 Latchley said, \lquote our evidence makes it conclusive that Henry Tudor did order the murder of the two princes in the Tower ... at the same time he set into motion the propaganda against Richard III. Henry proves to
\rquote ve been a most vile sort - devious, cruel, cowardly, murderous - political murder was an accepted part of his regime.\'94 Latchley shuddered. \'93And thanks to his sex drive, he\rquote s an ancestor of many of us.\'94 
\par \'93Tell \lquote em about Honest Abe,\'94 Sabantoce said. 
\par Latchley adjusted his glasses, touched the corner of his mouth with a finger, then: \'93Abraham Lincoln.\'94 
\par He said it as though announcing a visitor and there was a long pause. 
\par Presently, Latchley said: \'93I found this most distressing, Lincoln was my particular hero in childhood. As some of you know, General Butler was one of my ancestors and ... well, this was most distressing.\'94 
\par Latchley fumbled in his pocket, brought up a scrap of paper, studied it, then: \'93In a debate with Judge Douglas, Lincoln said: \'93I tell you very frankly that I am not
 in favor of Negro citizenship. I am not, nor ever have been, in favor of bringing about in any way the social and political equality of the white and black races; that I am not nor ever have been, in favor of making voters or jurors of Negroes, nor of qu
a
lifying them to hold office, nor to intermarry with white people. I will say in addition that there is a physical difference between the white and black races, which, I suppose, will forever forbid the two races living together upon terms of social and po
litical equality; and in as much as they cannot so live - while they do remain together - there must be the position of the superiors and the inferiors; and that I, as much as any other man, am in favor of the superior being assigned to the white man.\'94
 
\par Latchley sighed, stuffed the paper into a pocket. \'93Most distressing,\'94 he said. \'93
Once, in a conversation with Butler, Lincoln suggested that all Negroes should be deported to Africa. Another time, talking about the Emancipation Proclamation, he said: \lquote If it helps preserve the Union, that\rquote s enough. But it\rquote 
s as clear to me as it is to any thinking man in the Republic that this proclamation will be declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court following the cessation of hostilities.\'94 
\par Sabantoce interrupted: \'93How many of you realize what hot potatoes these are?\'94 
\par The faces around the table turned toward him then back to Latchley. 
\par \'93Once you have the clue of an on-the-scene observer,\'94 Latchley said, \'93you even find correspondence and other records of corroboration. It\rquote s amazing how people used to hide their papers.\'94 
\par The talkative graduate student leaned his elbows on the table, said: \'93The hotter the potato, the more people will notice it, isn\rquote t that right, Professor Latchley?\'94 
\par Poor fellow\rquote s bucking for a better grade even now, Sabantoce thought. And he answered for Latchley: \'93The hottest potatoes are the most difficult to swallow, too.\'94 
\par The inane exchange between Sabantoce and the student left a hollow silence behind it and a deepening sense of uneasiness. 
\par Another student said: \'93Where\rquote s Dr Marrnon? I understand he has a theory that the more GM we bring into contact with consciousness, the more we\rquote 
re controlled by the dominant brutality of our ancestors. You know, he says the most brutal ones survived to have children and we kind of gloss that over in our present awareness ... or something like that.\'94 
\par Old Inkton stirred out of his semidaze, turned his sour milk eyes on Latchley. \'93Pilgrims,\'94 he said. \'93Ah, yes,\'94 Latchley said. 
\par Sabantoce said: \'93We have eye-witness accounts of Puritans and Pilgrims robbing and raping Indians. Brutality. Some of my ancestors, I\rquote m afraid.\'94 
\par \'93Tea party,\'94 Old Inkton said. 
\par Why doesn\rquote t the old fool shut up? Latchley wondered. And he found himself increasingly uneasy about Marmon\rquote s absence. Could there have been a double double-cross? he asked himself. 
\par \'93Why not outline the Boston Tea Party?\rquote  Sabantoce asked. There\rquote re a few here who weren\rquote t in on that phase.\'94 
\par \'93Yes ... ahhh-mmmm,\'94 Latchley said. \'93Massachusetts had a smuggling governor then, of 
course. Everybody of consequence in the Colonies was smuggling. Navigation Acts and all that. The governor and his cronies were getting their tea from the Dutch. Had warehouses full of it. The British East India Company was on the verge of bankruptcy when
 the British Government voted a subsidy - equivalent to more than twenty million dollars in current exchange. Because of this ... ahh, subsidy, the East India Company\rquote 
s tea could be sent in at about half the price of the smuggled tea - even including the tax. The governor and his henchmen faced ruin. So they hired brigands to wear Indian disguise and dump the East India Company\rquote 
s tea into the harbor - about a half million dollars worth of tea. And the interesting thing is it was better tea than the smugglers
 had. Another item to note is that the governor and his cronies then added the cost of the hired brigand onto the price charged for their smuggled tea.\'94 
\par \'93Hot potatoes,\'94 Sabantoce said. \'93And we haven\rquote t even gone into the religious issues - Moses and his aides drafting the Ten Commandments ... the argument between Pilate and the religious fanatic.\'94 
\par \'93Or the present United States southern senator whose grandfather was a light-skinned Negro,\'94 Latchley said. 
\par Again, that air of suspenseful uneasiness came over the room. People turned and looked at their companions, twisted in their chairs. 
\par Sabantoce felt it and thought: We can\rquote t let them start asking the wrong questions. Maybe this was a bad tack to take. We should\rquote ve stalled them some other way ... perhaps in some other place. Where is Mormon? 
\par \'93Our problem is complicated by accuracy, strangely enough,\'94 Latchley said. \'93When you know where to look, the corroborating evidence is easy to find. The records of that southern senator\rquote s ancestry couldn\rquote t be disputed.\'94 
\par A student at the opposite end of the table said: \'93Well, if we have the evidence then nothing can stop us.\'94 
\par \'93Ahh ... mmmm,\'94 Latchley said. \'93Well ... ahh ... the financial base for our own school is involv ...\'94 
\par He was interrupted by a disturbance at the door. Two uniformed men pushed a tall blond young man in a rumpled dark suit into the room. The door was closed and there came the click of a lock. It was an ominous sound. 
\par Sabantoce rubbed his throat. 
\par The young man steadied himself with a hand against the wall, worked his way up the room to a point opposite Latchley, lurched across to an empty chair and collapsed into it. A thick odor of whisky accompanied him. 
\par Latchley stared at him, feeling both relief and uneasiness. They were really all here now. The
 newcomer stared back out of deep-set blue eyes. His mouth was a straight, in-curving line in a long face that appeared even longer because of an extremely high forehead. 
\par \'93What\rquote s going on here, Josh?\'94 he demanded. 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 Latchley put on his apologetic smile, said: \'93
Now, Dick, I\rquote m sorry we had to drag you away from wherev ...\'94 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 \'93Drag!\'94
 The young man glanced at Sabantoce, back to Latchley. \'93Who are those guys? Said they were campus police, but I never saw \lquote em before. Said I had to come with them ... vital importance!\'94 
\par \'93I told you this was an important meeting tonight,\'94 Sabantoce said. \'93You\rquote ve ...\'94 
\par \'93Important meeting,\'94 the young man sneered. 
\par \'93We must decide tonight about abandoning the project,\'94 Latchley said. 
\par A gasp sounded around the table. 
\par That was clever, Sabantoce thought. He looked down the table at the others, said: \'93Now that Dr Marmon is here, we can bring the thing out and examine it.\'94 
\par \'93Aband ...\'94 Marmon said and sat up straight in his chair. 
\par A long moment of silence passed. Abruptly, the table erupted to discord - everyone trying to talk at once. The noise subsided only when Sabantoce overrode it, slamming a palm against the table and shouting: \'93Please!\'94 
\par Into the sudden silence, Latchley said: \'93You have no idea how painful this disclosure is to those of us who\rquote ve already faced the realities of it.\'94 
\par \'93Realities?\'94 Marmon demanded. He shook his head and the effort he made to overcome the effects of drink was apparent to everyone around the table. 
\par \'93Let me point out to ail of you just one little part of our total problem,\'94 Sabantoce said. \'93The inheritance of several major fortunes in this country could be legally attacked - with excellent chances of success - on the basis or knowledge we
\rquote ve uncovered.\'94 
\par Sabantoce gave them a moment to absorb this, then: \'93We\rquote re boat rockers in a world whose motto is \lquote Don\rquote t give up the ship.\rquote  And we could tip over quite a few ships.\'94 
\par \'93Let us face it,\'94 Latchley said, picking up his cue from Sabantoce. 
\par \'93We are not a very powerful group.\'94 
\par \'93Just a minute!\'94 Marmon shouted. He hitched his chair closer to the table. \'93Bunch of crepe hangers. Where\rquote s y\rquote r common sense? We got the goods on a whole bunch of bums! Have you any idea how much that\rquote s worth?\'94 
\par From down the table to his left came one explosive word: \'93Blackmail?\'94 
\par Latchley looked at Sabantoce with a raised-eyebrows expression that said clearly: \'93See? I told you so.\'94 
\par \'93Why not?\'94 Marmon demanded. \'93These bums have been blackmailing us f\rquote r centuries. \'93B\rquote lieve what I tell y\rquote , man, or we\rquote ll pull y\rquote r arms outa their sockets!\'94 That\rquote s what they been tellin\rquote 
s ... telling us.\'94 He nibbed his lips. 
\par Sabantoce stood up, moved around the table and rested a hand lightly on Marmon\rquote s shoulder. \'93O.K. We\rquote ll let Dr Marmon be the devil\rquote s advocate. While he\rquote s talking, Dr Latchley and I will go out a
nd get the film and equipment for the little demonstration we\rquote ve prepared for you. It should give you a clear understanding of what we\rquote re up against.\'94 He nodded to Laichley, who arose and joined him. 
\par They crossed to the door, trying not to move too fast. Sabantoce rapped twice on the panel. The door opened and they slipped out between two uniformed guards, one of whom closed and locked the door behind them. 
\par \'93This way, please,\'94 the other guard said. 
\par They moved up the hall, hearing Marmon\rquote s voice fade behind them: \'93The bums have always controlled the history books and the courts and the coinage and the military and every ...\'94 
\par Distance reduced the voice to an unintelligible murmur. 
\par \'93Damn\rquote  Commie,\'94 one of the guards muttered. 
\par \'93It does seem such a waste,\'94 Latchley said. 
\par \'93Let\rquote s not kid ourselves,\'94 Sabantoce said as he started up the stairs to the building\rquote s side exit. \'93When the ship\rquote s sinking, you save what you can. I think the Bishop explained things clearly enough: God\rquote 
s testing all men and this is the ultimate test of faith.\'94 
\par \'93Ultimate test, certainly,\'94 Latchley said, laboring to keep up with Sabantoce. \'93And I\rquote m afraid I must agree with whoever it was said this would produce only chaos - unsettled times ... anarchy.\'94 
\par \'93Obvious,\'94 Sabantoce said, as he stepped through the outer door being held by another guard. 
\par Latchley and the escort followed. 
\par At once, Sabantoce noted that all the campus lights had been extinguished. The contrived power failure, he thought. They probably switched Meade to an emergency circuit so we wouldn\rquote t notice. 
\par One of their guards stepped forward, touched Latchley\rquote s arm, said: \'93Take the path directly across the quad to the Medical School. Use the back door into Vance Hall. You\rquote ll have to hurry. There isn\rquote t much time.\'94 
\par Sabantoce led the way down the steps and onto the dark path away from Meade Hall. The path was only a suggestion of lighter gray in the darkness. Latchley stumbled into Sabantoce as they hurried, said: \'93Excuse me.\'94 
\par There was an impression of many moving dark shapes in the shadows around them. Once a light was flashed in their faces, immediately extinguished. 
\par A voice came from the dark corner of a building: \'93Down here. Quickly.\'94 
\par Hands guided them down steps, through a door, past heavy draperies, through another door and into a small, dimly lighted room. 
\par Sabantoce recognized it - a medical storeroom that appeared to have been emptied of its supplies rather quickly. There was a small box of compresses on a shelf at his right. 
\par The room was heavy with tobacco smoke and the odor of perspiration. At least a dozen men loomed up in the gloom around them - some of the men in uniform. 
\par A heavy-jowled man with a brigadier\rquote s star on his shoulder confronted Sabantoce, said: \'93Glad to see you made it safely. Are they all in that building now?\'94 
\par \'93Every last one,\'94 Sabantoce said. He swallowed. 
\par \'93What about the formula for your Compound 105?\'94 
\par \'93Well,\'94 Sabantoce said, and allowed a smirk to touch his lips: \'93I took a little precaution about that - just to keep you honest. I mailed a few copies around to ...\'94 
\par \'93We know about those,\'94 the brigadier said. \'93We\rquote ve had the mails from this place closed off and censored for months. I mean those copies you typed in the bursar\rquote s office.\'94 
\par Sabantoce turned white. \'93Well, they\rquote re ...\'94 
\par Latchley interrupted, saying: \'93Really, what\rquote s going on here? I thought we ...\'94 
\par \'93Be quiet!\'94 the brigadier snapped. He returned his attention to Sabantoce. \'93Well?\'94 
\par \'93I ... ahh ...\'94 
\par \'93Those are the ones we found under the floor of his rooms,\'94 said a man by the door. \'93The typeface is identical, sir.\'94 
\par \'93But I want to know if he made any other copies,\'94 the brigadier said. 
\par It was clear from the expression on Sabantoce\rquote s face that he had not. \'93Well ... I ...\'94 he began. 
\par Again Latchley interrupted. \'93I see no need to ...\'94 
\par The loud cork-popping sound of a silenced revolver cut him off. The noise was repeated. 
\par Latchley and Sabantoce crumpled to the floor, dead before they hit it. The man by the door stepped back, bolstering his weapon. 
\par As though punctuating their deaths, the outside night was ripped by an explosion. 
\par Presently, a man leaned into the room, said: \'93The walls went in the way we planned, sir. Thermite and napalm are finishing it. Won\rquote t be a trace of those dirty Commies.\'94 
\par \'93Good work, captain,\'94 the brigadier said. \'93That will be all. Just keep civilians away from the immediate area until we\rquote re sure.\'94 
\par \'93Very good, sir.\rquote  
\par The head retreated and the door was closed. 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 
Good man, the brigadier thought. He fingered the lone remaining copy of Compound 105\rquote s formula in his pocket. Th
ey were all good men. Hand picked. Have to use a different screening process to pick the men for the next project, though: the investigation of possible military uses in this Compound 105. 
\par \'93I want these bodies burned practically to ash,\'94 he said, gesturing with a toe at Sabantoce and Latchley. \'93Deliver them with those you pick up from the building.\'94 
\par From the shadowed rear of the room came a heavy, growling voice: \'93What\rquote ll I tell the senator?\'94 
\par \'93Tell him anything you want,\'94 the brigadier said. \'93I\rquote ll show him my private report later.\'94 And he thought: There\rquote s an immediate, use for this compound - we have a senator right in our pockets. 
\par \'93Damn\rquote  nigger lovers,\'94 the growling voice said. 
\par \'93Speak not unkindly of the dead,\'94 said a smooth tenor from the opposite corner of the room. 
\par A man in a black suit pushed himself through to the open area around the bodies, knelt and began praying in a soft, mumbling voice. 
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi612\li595\ri595\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin595\lin595\itap0\ipgp1\pararsid7158391 {\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid7558202 \'93Tell me as soon as that fire\rquote s out,\'94 the brigadier said. 
\par }}