{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f35\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604030504040204}Tahoma;}{\f36\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02050604050505020204}Bookman Old Style;}{\f37\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f38\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\f40\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f41\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f42\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f43\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}
{\f44\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f45\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f47\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f48\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f50\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}
{\f51\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f52\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}{\f53\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f54\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f55\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Arial (Vietnamese);}
{\f387\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Tahoma CE;}{\f388\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Tahoma Cyr;}{\f390\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Tahoma Greek;}{\f391\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Tahoma Tur;}{\f392\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Tahoma (Hebrew);}
{\f393\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Tahoma (Arabic);}{\f394\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Tahoma Baltic;}{\f395\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Tahoma (Vietnamese);}{\f396\fswiss\fcharset222\fprq2 Tahoma (Thai);}{\f397\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Bookman Old Style CE;}
{\f398\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Bookman Old Style Cyr;}{\f400\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Bookman Old Style Greek;}{\f401\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Bookman Old Style Tur;}{\f404\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Bookman Old Style Baltic;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs32\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning32\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \styrsid993056 heading 1;}{
\s3\ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs26\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \styrsid993056 heading 3;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \cbpat9 
\f35\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \ssemihidden \styrsid486517 Document Map;}}{\*\revtbl {Unknown;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid225670\rsid273175\rsid294682\rsid328033\rsid486517\rsid599701\rsid616833\rsid673334\rsid882356\rsid993056
\rsid1054710\rsid1447439\rsid1596098\rsid2363740\rsid2456058\rsid2562296\rsid2703296\rsid2977534\rsid3099170\rsid3692535\rsid3741571\rsid3804908\rsid4073275\rsid4589011\rsid4590680\rsid4662298\rsid4663757\rsid4732550\rsid4786348\rsid4800654\rsid4921723
\rsid5053020\rsid5118269\rsid5588343\rsid5594899\rsid5864358\rsid6227902\rsid6359728\rsid6366266\rsid6381658\rsid7150036\rsid7170807\rsid7233143\rsid7563172\rsid7631617\rsid7740987\rsid8922688\rsid9076075\rsid9776376\rsid9852179\rsid9899577\rsid10103342
\rsid10122069\rsid10248448\rsid10251720\rsid10255708\rsid10779503\rsid10954185\rsid11105490\rsid11341839\rsid11416625\rsid11882119\rsid11929225\rsid12797010\rsid13257972\rsid13635587\rsid13717951\rsid14305911\rsid14434050\rsid14820781\rsid15009510
\rsid15206357\rsid15416053\rsid15532258\rsid15620017\rsid15692550\rsid15760631\rsid16330329\rsid16338008\rsid16347429\rsid16349347}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.3416;}{\info{\title TURJAN OPENED HIS EYES}{\author Chuck Darwin}{\operator Chuck Darwin}
{\creatim\yr2003\mo7\dy15\hr17\min43}{\revtim\yr2003\mo7\dy15\hr17\min43}{\version2}{\edmins4}{\nofpages127}{\nofwords53174}{\nofchars245666}{\*\company HMS Beagle}{\nofcharsws296794}{\vern16453}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot4786348 \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid993056 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs30\cf1\insrsid993056 TURJAN OPENED HIS EYES. HE WAS BACK ON EARTH.}{\insrsid993056 
\par }{\fs23\cf1\insrsid4663757 
\par }{\fs23\cf1\insrsid993056 It was night in the city of Kaiin, and festival time. Orange lanterns floated in the air, and from the balconies dangled flower chains and cages of blue fireflie
s. The streets surged with the wine-flushed populace, costumed in a multitude of bizarre modes. Here was a Melantine bargeman, here a warrior of Valdaran's Green Legion, here another of ancient times wearing one of the old helmets. In a clearing, a garlan
ded courtesan of the Kauchique littoral danced the Dance of the Fourteen Silken Movements to the musk of flutes. In the shadows a girl barbarian embraced a man blackened and in leather harness as a Deodand of the forest....
\par }{\insrsid4663757 
\par }{\fs23\cf1\insrsid993056 They were gay, these people of waning Earth, feverishly merry, for infinite night was close at hand, when the red sun should finally flicker and go black.
\par }{\b\fs16\cf1\insrsid4663757 
\par }{\b\fs16\cf1\insrsid993056 Books by Jack Vance}{\insrsid993056 
\par }{\fs14\cf1\insrsid4663757 
\par }{\fs14\cf1\insrsid993056 The Best of Jack Vance}{\insrsid993056 
\par }{\fs14\cf1\insrsid993056 The Dying Earth}{\insrsid993056 
\par }{\fs14\cf1\insrsid993056 The Eyes of the Overworld}{\insrsid993056 
\par }{\fs14\cf1\insrsid4663757 
\par }{\fs14\cf1\insrsid993056 Published by TIMESCAPE/POCKET BOOKS}{\insrsid993056 
\par }{\b\fs82\cf1\insrsid4663757 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid4663757 {\b\fs82\cf1\insrsid993056 THE DYING }{\b\fs82\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 EARTH}{\insrsid993056 
\par }{\b\fs65\cf1\insrsid4663757 
\par }{\b\fs65\cf1\insrsid993056 Jack Vance}{\insrsid993056 
\par }{\b\fs18\cf1\insrsid4663757 
\par }{\b\fs18\cf1\insrsid993056 A TIMESCAPE BOOK}{\insrsid993056 
\par }{\fs18\cf1\insrsid993056 PUBLISHED BY POCKET BOOKS NEW YORK
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid993056 {\insrsid4663757 
\par }{\insrsid993056 
\par }{\fs16\cf1\insrsid993056 A Timescape Book published by}{\insrsid993056 
\par }{\fs16\cf1\insrsid993056 POCKET BOOKS, a Simon & Schuster division of}{\insrsid993056 
\par }{\fs16\cf1\insrsid993056 GULF & WESTERN CORPORATION}{\insrsid993056 
\par }{\fs16\cf1\insrsid993056 1230 Avenue of the Americas, New York, N.Y. 10020}{\insrsid993056 
\par }{\fs16\cf1\insrsid993056 Copyright 1950 by Hillman Periodicals, Inc.}{\insrsid993056 
\par }{\fs16\cf1\insrsid993056 All rights reserved, incl}{\fs16\cf1\insrsid4663757 uding the right to reproduce , }{\fs16\cf1\insrsid993056 this book or portions thereof in any form whatsoever. }{\fs16\cf1\insrsid4663757 
\par }{\fs16\cf1\insrsid993056 For information address Timescape Books, 1230 Avenue of the Americas, New York, N.Y. 10020}{\insrsid993056 
\par }{\fs16\cf1\insrsid993056 ISBN: 0-671-44184-1}{\insrsid993056 
\par }{\fs16\cf1\insrsid993056 First Pocket Books printing March, 1977}{\insrsid993056 
\par }{\fs16\cf1\insrsid993056 10   9   8   7   6   5   4   3}{\insrsid993056 
\par }{\fs16\cf1\insrsid993056 Use of the trademark TIMESCAPE is by exclusive license from Gregory Benford, the trademark owner.}{\insrsid993056 
\par }{\fs16\cf1\insrsid993056 Printed in the U.S.A.}{\insrsid993056 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\qc \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid4663757 \b\f1\fs32\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning32\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid993056 THE DYING EARTH
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid4663757 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid4663757\charrsid4663757 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\sb120\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10103342 \b\f1\fs26\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid993056 1. TURJAN OF MIIR
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sb120\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10103342 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid993056 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\scaps\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 turjan sat }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
in his workroom, legs sprawled out from the stool, back against and elbows on the bench. Across the room was a cage; into this Turjan gazed with rueful vexation. The creature in the cage returned the scrutiny with emotions beyond conjecture.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }\pard \ql \fi360\li0\ri0\sb120\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10103342 {\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 It was a thing to arouse pity\emdash 
a great head on a small spindly body, with weak rheumy eyes and a flabby button of a nose. The mouth hung slackly wet, the skin glistened waxy pink. In spite of its manifest imperfection, it was to date the most successful product of Turjan's vats.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Turjan stood up, found a bowl of pap. With a long-handled spoon he held food to the creature's mouth. But the mouth refused the spoon and mush trickled down the glazed skin to fall on the rickety frame.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Turjan put down the bowl, stood back and slo
wly returned to his stool. For a week now it had refused to eat. Did the idiotic visage conceal perception, a will to extinction? As Turjan watched, the white-blue eyes closed, the great head slumped and bumped to the floor of the cage. The limbs relaxed:
 the creature was dead.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
Turjan sighed and left the room. He mounted winding stone stairs and at last came out on the roof of his castle Miir, high above the river Derna. In the west the sun hung close to old earth; ruby shafts, heavy and rich as wine, slant
ed past the gnarled boles of the archaic forest to lay on the turfed forest floor. The sun sank in accordance with the old ritual; latter-day night fell across the forest, a soft, warm darkness came swiftly, and Turjan stood pondering the death of his lat
est creature.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
He considered its many precursors: the thing all eyes, the boneless creature with the pulsing surface of its brain exposed, the beautiful female body whose intestines trailed out into the nutrient solution like seeking fibrils, the inverted in
side-out creatures . . . Turjan sighed bleakly. His methods were at fault; a fundamental element was, lacking from his synthesis, a matrix ordering the components of the pattern.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 As he sat gazing across the darkening land, memory took Turjan to a night of years before, when the Sage had stood beside him.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "In ages gone," the Sage had said, his eyes fixed on a low star, "a thousand spells were known to sorcery and the wizards effected their wills. Today, as Earth dies, a hundred spells remain to man's knowled
ge, and these have come to us through the ancient books ... But there is one called Pandelume, who knows all the spells, all the incantations, cantraps, runes, and thaumaturgies that have ever wrenched and molded space .. ." He had fallen silent, lost in 
his thoughts.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Where is this Pandelume?" Turjan had asked presently.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "He dwells in the land of Embelyon," the Sage had replied, "but where this land lies, no one knows."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "How does one find Pandelume, then?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The Sage had smiled faintly. "If it were ever necessary, a spell exists to take one there."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Both had been silent a moment; then the Sage had spoken, staring out over the forest}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "One may ask anything of Pandelume, and Pandelume will answer\emdash provided that the seeker performs the service Pandelume requires. And Pandelume drives a hard bargain."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Then the Sage had shown Turjan the spell in question,}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid4732550  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
which he had discovered in an ancient portfolio, and kept secret from all the world.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Turjan, remembering this conversation, descended to his study, a long low hall with stone walls and a stone floor deadened by a thick russe}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid4732550 t rug. The tomes which held Tur}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 jan's sorcery lay on the long table of black steel or were thrust helter-skelter into shelves. Thes
e were volumes compiled by many wizards of the past, untidy folios collected by the Sage, leather-bound librams setting forth the syllables of a hundred powerful spells, so cogent that }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid4732550 Tur}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 jan's brain could know but four at a time.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Turjan found a musty port
folio, turned the heavy pages to the spell the Sage had shown him, the Call to the Violent Cloud. He stared down at the characters and they burned with an urgent power, pressing off the page as if frantic to leave the dark solitude of the book.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Turjan closed the book, forcing the spell back into oblivion. He robed himself with a short }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid4732550 blue cape, tucked a blade into h}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
is belt, fitted the amulet holding Laccodel's Rune to his wrist. Then he sat down and from a journal chose the spells he would take with him. W
hat dangers he might meet he could not know, so he selected three spells of general application: the Excellent Prismatic Spray, Phandaal's Mantle of Stealth, and the Spell of the Slow Hour.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He climbed the parapets of his castle and stood under the far star
s, breathing the air of ancient Earth . . . How many times had this air been breathed before him? What cries of pain had this air experienced, what sighs, laughs, war shouts, cries of exultation, gasps}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid4732550 \'85}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The night was wearing on. A blue light wavered in the forest. Turjan watched a moment, then at last squared himself and uttered the Call to the Violent Cloud.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 All was quiet; then came a whisper of movement swelling to the roar of great wi}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid4732550 nds. A wisp of }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
white appeared and waxed to a pillar of boiling black smoke. A voice deep and harsh issued from the turbulence.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "At your disturbing power is this instrument come; whence will you go?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Four Directions, then One," said Turjan. "Alive must I be brought to Embelyon."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The cloud whirled down; far up and away he was snatched, flung head over heels into incalculable distance.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Four directions was he thrust, then one, and at last a great blow hurled him from }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid4732550 the cloud, sprawled him into Em}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 belyon.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Turjan gained his feet and }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid4732550 tottered a moment, half-dazed. H}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 is senses steadied; he looked about him.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
He stood on the bank of a limpid pool. Blue flowers grew, about his ankles and at his back reared a grove of tall blue-green trees, the leaves blurring on high into mist. Was Embelyon of Earth? The trees were Earth-like, the flower
s were of familiar form, the air was of the same texture . . . But there was an o}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid4732550 dd lack to this land and it was}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
 difficult to determine. Perhaps it came of the horizon's curious vagueness, perhaps from the blurring quality of the air, lucent and uncertain 
as water. Most strange, however, was the sky, a mesh of vast ripples and cross-ripples, and these refracted a thousand shafts of colored light, rays which in mid-air wove wondrous laces, rainbow nets, in all the jewel hues. So as Turjan watched, there swe
p
t over him beams of claret, topaz, rich violet, radiant green. He now perceived that the colors of the flowers and the trees were but fleeting functions of the sky, for now the flowers were of salmon tint, and the trees a dreaming purple. The flowers deep
ened to copper, then with a suffusion of crimson, warmed through maroon to scarlet, and the trees had become sea-blue.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "The Land None Knows Where," said Turjan to himself. "Have I been brought high, low, into a pre-existence or into the after-world?" He loo
ked toward the horizon and thought to see a black curtain rising high into the murk, and this curtain encircled the land in all directions.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The sound of galloping hooves approached; he turned to find a black horse lunging break-neck along the bank of the p
ool. The rider was a young woman with black hair streaming wildly. She wore loose white breeches to the knee and a yellow cape flapping in the wind. One hand clutched the reins, the other flourished a sword.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Turjan warily stepped aside, for her mouth was t
ight and white as if in anger, and her eyes glowed with a peculiar frenzy. The woman hauled back on the reins, wheeled her horse high around, charged Turjan, and struck out at him with her sword.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Turjan jumped back and whipped free his own blade. When she lunged at him again, he fended off the blow and}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid4800654  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
leaning forward, touched the point to her arm and brought a drop of blood. She drew back startled; then up from her saddle she snatched a bow and flicked an arrow to the string. Turjan sprang forward, dodging
 the wild sweep of her sword, seized her around the waist, and dragged her to the ground.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She fought with a crazy violence. He had no wish to kill her, and so struggled in a manner not entirely dignified. Finally he held her helpless, her arms pinioned behind her back.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Quiet, vixen!" said Turjan, "lest I lose patience and stun you!"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Do as you please," the girl gasped. "Life and death are brothers."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Why do you seek to harm me?" demanded Turjan. "I have given you no offense."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "You are evil, like all existence." Emotion ground the delicate fibers of her throat. "If power were mine, I would crush the universe to bloody gravel, and stamp it into the ultimate muck."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Turjan in surprise relaxed his grip, and she nearly broke loose. But he caught her again,}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Tell me, where may I find Pandelume?'.'}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The girl stilled her exertion, twisted her head to stare at Turjan. Then: "Search all Embelyon. I will assist you not at all."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 If she were more amiable, thought Turjan, she would be a creature of remarkable beauty.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Tell me where I may find Pandelume," said Turjan, "else I find other uses for you."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She was silent for a moment, her eyes blazing with madness. Then she spoke in a vibrant voice.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Pandelume dwells beside the stream only a few paces distant."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Turjan released her, but he took her sword and bow.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "If I return these to you, will you go your way in peace?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 For a moment she glared; then without words she mounted her horse and rode off through the trees.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Turjan watched her disappear through the shafts of jewel colors, then went in the direction she had indicated. Soon he came to a long low manse of red stone backed by}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid4800654  }{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 dark trees. As he approached the door swung open. Turjan halted in mid-stride.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Enter!" came a voice. "Enter, Turjan of Miir!" So Turjan wonde}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid4800654 ringly entered the manse of Pan}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
delume. He found himself in a tapestried chamber, bare of furnishing save a single settee. No one came to greet him. A closed door stood at the opposite wall, and Turjan went to pass through, thinking perhaps it was expected of him.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Halt, Turjan," spoke the voice. "No one may gaze on Pandelume. It is the law."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Turjan, standing in the middle of the room, spoke to his unseen host.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "This is my mission, Pandelume," he said. "Fo
r some time I have been striving to create humanity in my vats. Yet always I fail, from ignorance of the agent that binds and orders the patterns. This master-matrix must be known to you; therefore I come to you for guidance."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Willingly will I aid you," s
aid Pandelume. "There is, however, another aspect involved. The universe is methodized by symmetry and balance; in every aspect of existence is this equipoise observed. Consequently, even in the trivial scope of our dealings, this equivalence must be main
tained, thus and thus. I agree to assist you; in return, you perform a service of equal value for me. When you have completed this small work, I will instruct and guide you to your complete satisfaction."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "What may this service be?" inquired Turjan.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "A man lives in the land of Ascolais, not far from your Castle Miir. About his neck hangs an amulet of carved blue stone. This you must take from him and bring to me."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Turjan considered a moment.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Very well," he said. "I will do what I can. Who is the man?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Pandelume answered in a soft voice.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Prince Kandive the Golden."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Ah," exclaimed Turjan ruefully, "you have gone to no pains to make my task a pleasant one . . . But I will fulfill your requirement as best I can."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Good," said Pandelume. "Now I must instruct you. Kandive wears this amulet hidden below his singlet. When an enemy appears, he takes it out to display on his chest, such is the potency of}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid4800654  the charm. No matter what else}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 , do}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid4800654  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
not gaze on this amulet, either before or after you take it, on pain of most hideous consequence."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I understand," said Turjan. "I will obey. Now there is a question I would ask\emdash 
providing the answer will not involve me in an undertaking to bring the Moon back to Earth, or recover an elixir you inadvertently spilled in the sea."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Pandelume laughed loud. "Ask on," he responded, "and I will answer."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Turjan put his question.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "As I approached your dwelling, a woman of insane fury wished to kill me. This I would not permit and she departed in rage. Who is this woman and why is she thus?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Pandelume's voice was amused. "I, too," he replied, "have vats where I mold life into varied forms. This girl T'sais I created, but I wrought carelessly, with a flaw in the synthesis. So she cl}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid4800654 imbed from the vat with a warp }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 i}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid4800654 n}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  her brain, in this manner: what 
we hold to be beautiful seems to her loathsome and ugly, and what we find ugly is to her intoler}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid4800654 ably vile, }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 i}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid4800654 n}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  a degree that you and I cannot understand. She finds the world a bitter place, people with shapes of direst malevolence."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "So this is the answer," Turjan murmured. "Pitiable wretch!"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Now," said Pandelume, "you must be on your way to Kaiin; the auspices are good ... In a moment open this door, enter, and move to the pattern of runes on the floor."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Turjan performed as he was bid. He found the next ro
om to be circular and high-domed, with the varying lights of Embelyon pouring down through sky-transparencies. When he stood upon the pattern in the floor, Pandelume spoke again.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Now close your eyes, for I must enter and touch you. Heed well, do not try to glimpse me!"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
Turjan closed his eyes. Presently a step sounded behind him. "Extend your hand," said the voice. Turjan did so, and felt a hard object placed therein. "When your mission is accomplished, crush this crystal and at once you will find yourself 
in this room." A cold hand was laid on his shoulder.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "An instant you will sleep," said Pandelume. "When you awake you will be in the city Kaiin."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The hand departed. A dimness came over Turjan as he}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid4800654  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 stood awaiting the passage. The air had suddenly become fu
ll of sound: clattering, a tinkling of many small bells, music, voices. Turjan frowned, pursed his lips: A strange tumult for the austere home of Pandelume}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid3741571 !}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 A woman's voice sounded close by.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Look, O Santanil, see the man-owl who closes his eyes to merriment!"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 There was a man's laughter, suddenly hushed. "Come. The fellow is bereft and possibly violent. Come."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Turjan hesitated, then opened his eyes. It was night in white-walled Kaiin, and fest
ival time. Orange lanterns floated in the air, moving as the breeze took them. From the balconies dangled flower chains and cages of blue fireflies. The streets surged with the wine-flushed populace, costumed in a multitude of bizarre modes. Here was a Me
l
antine bargeman, here a warrior of Valdaran's Green Legion, here another of ancient times wearing one of the old helmets. In a little cleared space a garlanded courtesan of the Kauchique littoral danced the Dance of the Fourteen Silken Movements to the mu
s
ic of flutes. In the shadow of a balcony a girl barbarian of East Almery embraced a man blackened and in leather harness as a Deodand of the forest. They were gay, these people of waning Earth, feverishly merry, for infinite night was close at hand, when 
the red sun should finally flicker and go black.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Turjan melted into the throng. At a tavern he refreshed himself with biscuits and wine; then he made for the palace of Kandive the Golden.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The palace loomed before him, every window and balcony aglow with lig
ht. Among the lords of the city there was feasting and revelry. If Prince Kandive were flushed with drink and unwary, reflected Turjan, the task should not be too difficult. Yet, entering boldly, he might be recognized, for he was known to many in Kaiin. 
So, uttering Phandaal's Mantle of Stealth, he faded from the sight of all men.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Through the arcade he slipped, into the grand salon, where the lords of Kaiin made merry like the throngs of the street. Turjan threaded the rainbow of silk, velour, sateen, watc
hing the play with amusement. On a terrace some stood looking into a sunken pool where a pair of captured Deodands, their skins like oiled jet, paddled and}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid13635587  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
glared; others tossed darts at the spread-eagled body of a young Cobalt Mountain witch. In alcoves beflowered girls offered synthetic love to wheezing old men, and elsewhere others lay stupefied by dream-powders. Nowhere did }{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid13635587 Turjan}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  find Prince Kandive. Through the palace he wandered, room after room, until at last}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid13635587  in }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
an upper chamber he came upon the tall golden-bearded prince, lolling on a couch with a masked girl-child who had green eyes and hair dyed pale green.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Some intuition or perhaps a charm warned Kandive when Turjan slipped through the purple hangings. Kandive leapt to his feet.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Go!" he ordered the girl. "Out of the room quickly! Mischief moves somewhere near and I must blast it with }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329 magic!}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The girl ran hastily from the chamber. Kandive's hand stole to his throat and pulled forth the hidden amulet. But Turjan shielded his gaze with his hand.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Kandive uttered a powerful charm which loosened space free of all warp. So Turjan's spell was void and he became visible.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Turjan of Miir skulks through my palace!" snarled Kandive.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "With ready death on my lips," spoke Turjan. "Turn your back, Kandive, or I speak a spell and run you through with my sword."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Kandive made as if to obey, but instead shouted the syllables bringing the Omnipotent Sphere about him.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Now I call my guards, Turjan," announced Kandive contemptuously, "and you shall be cast to the Deodands in the tank."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
Kandive did not know the engraved band Turjan wore on his wrist, a most powerful rune, maintaining a field solvent of all magic. Still guarding his vision against the amulet, Turjan stepped through the Sphere. Kandive's great blue eyes bulged.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Call the guards," said Turjan. "They will find your body riddled by lines of fire."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\i\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Your }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
body, Turjan!" cried the prince, babbling the spell. Instantly the blazing wires of the Excellent Prismatic Spray lashed from all directions at Turjan. Kandive w
atched the furious rain with a wolfish grin, but his expression changed quickly to consternation. A finger's}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid13635587  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
breath from Turjan's skin the fire-darts dissolved into a thousand gray puffs of smoke.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Turn your back, Kandive," Turjan ordered. "Your magic is useless against Laccodel's Rune." But Kandive took a step toward a spring in the wall.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Halt!" cried Turjan. "One more step and the Spray splits you }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329 thousandfold!}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Kandive stopped short. In helpless rage he turned his back and Turjan, steppin
g forward quickly, reached over Kandive's neck, seized the amulet and raised it free. It crawled in his hand and through the fingers there passed a glimpse of blue. A daze shook his brain, and for an instant he heard a murmur of avid voices . . . His visi
on cleared. He backed away from Kandive, stuffing the amulet in his pouch. Kandive asked, "May I now turn about in safety?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "When you wish," responded Turjan, clasping his pouch. Kandive, seeing Turjan occupied, negligently stepped to the wall and placed his hand on a spring.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Turjan," he said, }{\i\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "you }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
are lost. Before you may utter a syllable, I will open the floor and drop you a great dark distance. Can your charms avail against this?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Turjan halted in mid-}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid13635587 motion, fixed his eyes upon Kan}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 dive's red and gold fa
ce. Then he dropped his eyes sheepishly. "Ah, Kandive," he fretted, "you have outwitted me. If I return you the amulet, may I go free?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 'Toss the amulet at my feet," said Kandive, gloating. "Also Laccodel's Rune. Then I shall decide what mercy to grant you."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Even the Rune?" Turjan asked, forcing a piteous note to his voice.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Or your life."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Turjan reached into his pouch and grasped the crystal Pandelume had given him. He pulled it forth and held it against the pommel of his sword.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Ho, Kandive," he said, "I have discerned your trick. You merely wish to frighten me into surrender. I defy you!"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Kandive shrugged. "Die then." He pushed the spring. The floor jerked open, and Turjan disappeared into the gulf. But when Kandive raced below 
to claim Turjan's body, he found no trace, and he spent the rest of the night in temper, brooding over wine.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Turjan found himself}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid13635587  in the circular room of Pandel}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
ume's manse. Embelyon's many-colored lights streamed through the sky-windows upon his shoulder\emdash sapphire blue, the yellow of marigolds, blood red. There was silence through the house. Turjan moved away from the rune }{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid13635587 in}{\i\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 the floor, glancing uneasil}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid5118269 y to the door, fearful lest Pan}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 delume, unaware of his presence, enter the room.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Pandelume!" he called. "I have returned!"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
There was no response. Deep quiet held the house. Turjan wished he were in the open air where the odor of sorcery was less strong. He looked at the doors; one led to the entrance hall, the other he knew not where. The door on the right hand
 must lead outside; he laid his hand on the latch to pull it open. But he paused. Suppose he were mistaken, and Pandelume's form were revealed? Would it be wiser to wait here?}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 A solution occurred to him. His back to the door, he swung it open.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Pandelume!" he called.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 A s}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid5118269 oft intermittent sound came to hi}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
s ears from behind, and he seemed to hear a labored breath. Suddenly frightened, Turjan stepped back into the circular room and closed the door.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He resigned himself to patience and sat on the floor.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 A gasping cry came from the next room. Turjan leapt to his feet.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Turjan? You are there?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Yes; I have returned with the amulet."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Do this quickly," panted the v}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid5118269 oice. "Guarding your sight, hang}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  the amulet over your neck and enter."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Turjan, spurred by the urgency of the voice, closed his eyes and arranged the amulet on his chest. He groped to the door and flung it wide.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Silence of a shocked intensity held an instant; then came an appalling screech, so wild and demoniac that Turjan's brain sang. Mighty pinions bu
ffeted the air, there was a hiss and the scrape of metal. Then, amidst muffled roaring, an icy wind bit Turjan's face. Another hiss\emdash and all was quiet.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "My gratitude is yours," said the calm voice of Pandelume. "Few times have I experienced such dire stress, and without your aid might not have repulsed that creature of hell."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 A hand lifted the amulet from Turjan's neck. After a moment of silence Pandelume's voice sounded }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329 agai}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329\charrsid993056 n}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  from a distance.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "You may open your eyes."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Turjan did so. He was in Pandelume's workroom; amidst much else, he saw vats like his own.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I will not thank you," said Pandelume. "But in order that a fitting symmetry be maintained, I perform a service for a service. I will not only guide your hands as you work among the vats, but also will I
 teach you other matters of value."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
In this fashion did Turjan enter his apprenticeship to Pandelume. Day and far into the opalescent Embelyon night he worked under Pandelume's unseen tutelage. He learned the secret of renewed youth, many spells of the anc
ients, and a strange abstract lore that Pandelume termed "Mathematics."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Within this instrument," said Pandelume, "resides the Universe. Passive in itself and not of sorcery, it elucidates every problem, each phase of existence, all the secrets of time and
 space. Your spells and runes are built upon its power and codified according to a great underlying mosaic of magic. The design of this mosaic we cannot surmise; our knowledge is didactic, empirical, arbitrary. }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329 Phandaal}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  glimpsed the pattern and so was able
 to formulate many of the spells which bear his name. I have endeavored through the ages to break the clouded glass, but so far my research has failed. He who discovers the pattern will know all of sorcery and be a man powerful beyond comprehension."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 So Turjan applied himself to the study and learned many of the simpler routines.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I find herein a wonderful beauty," he told Pandelume. "This is no science, this is art, where equations fall away to elements like resolving chords, and where always prevails a sy
mmetry either explicit or multiplex, but always of }{\i\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 a }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 crystalline serenity."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 In spite of these other studies, Turjan spent most of his time at the vats, and under Pandelume's guidance achieved the mastery he sought. As a recreation he formed a girl of exoti
c design, whom he named Floriel. The hair of the girl he had found with Kandive on the night of the festival had fixed in his mind, and he gave his }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329\charrsid993056 creature}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
 pale green hair. She had skin of creamy tan and wide emerald eyes. Turjan was intoxicated with deli
ght when he brought her wet and perfect from the vat. She learned quickly and soon knew how to speak with Turjan. She was one of dreamy and wistful habit, caring for little but wandering among the flowers of the meadow, or sitting silently by the river; y
et she was a pleasant creature and her gentle manners amused Turjan.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 But one day the black-haired T'sais came riding past on her horse, steely-eyed, slashing at flowers with her sword. The innocent Floriel wandered by and T'sais, exclaiming "Green-eyed woman\emdash 
your aspect horrifies me, it is death for you!" cut her down as she had the flowers in her path.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Turjan, hearing the hooves, came from the workroom in time to witness the sword-play. He paled in rage and a spell of twisting torment rose to his lips. Then
 T'sais looked at him and cursed him, and in the pale face and dark eyes he saw her misery and the spirit that caused her to}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid4662298  defy her fate and hold to her li}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
fe. Many emotions fought in him, but at last he permitted T'sais to ride on. He buried Floriel by the river-bank and tried to forget her in intense study.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 A few days later he raised his head from his work.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Pandelume! Are you near?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "What do you wish, Turjan?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "You mentioned that when you made T'sais, a flaw warped her brain. Now I would create one like her, of the same intensity, yet sound of mind and spirit."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "As you will," replied Pandelume indifferently, and gave Turjan the pattern.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 So Turjan built a sister to T'sais, and day by day watched the same slender body, the same proud features take form.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 When her time came, and she sat up}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid13635587  in }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 her vat, eyes glowing with joyful life, Turjan was breathless in haste to help her forth.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She stood before him wet and naked, a twin to T'sais, but where the face of T'sais was racked by hate
, here dwelt peace and merriment; where the eyes of T'sais glowed with fury, here shone the stars of imagination.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Turjan stood wondering at the perfection of his own creation. "Your name shall be T'sain," said he, "and already I know that you will be part of my life."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He abandoned all else to teach T'sain, and she learned }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329\charrsid993056 wi}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329 t}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329\charrsid993056 h}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  marvelous speed.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Presently we return to Earth," he told her, "to my home beside a great river in the green land of Ascolais."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Is the sky of Earth filled with colors?" she inquired.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
"No," he replied. "The sky of Earth is a fathomless dark blue, and an ancient red sun rides across the sky. When night falls the stars appear in patterns that I will teach you. Embelyon is beautiful, but Earth is wide, and the horizons extend far o}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid10251720 ff into mystery. As soon as Pan}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 delume wills, we return to Earth."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 T'sain loved to swim in the river, and sometimes Turjan came down to splash her and toss rocks in the water while he dreamed. Against T'sais he had warned her, and she had promised to be wary.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 But o
ne day, as Turjan made preparations for departure, she wandered far afield through the meadows, mindful only of the colors at play in the sky, the majesty of the tall blurred trees, the changing flowers at her feet; she looked on the world with a wonder t
hat is only for those new from the vats. Across several low hills she wandered, and through a dark forest where she found a cold brook. She drank and sauntered along the bank, and presently came upon a small dwelling.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The door being open, T'sain looked to s
ee who might live here. But the house was vacant, and the only furnishings were a neat pallet of grass, a table with a basket of nuts, a shelf with a few articles of wood and pewter.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 T'sain turned to go on her way, but at this moment she heard the ominous 
thud of hooves, sweeping close like fate. The black horse slid to a stop before her. T'sain shrank back in the doorway, all Turjan's warnings returning to her mind. But T'sais had dismounted and came forward with her sword ready. As she raised to strike, 
their eyes met, and T'sais halted in wonder.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
It was a sight to excite the brain, the beautiful twins wearing the same white waist-high breeches, with the same intense eyes and careless hair, the same slim pale bodies, the one wearing on her face hate for ev
ery atom of the universe, the other a gay exuberance.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 T'sais found her voice.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "How is this, witch? You bear my semblance, yet you}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid10251720  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
are not me. Or has the boon of madness come at last to dim my sight of the world?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 T'sain shook her head. "I am T'sain. You are my twin, T'sais, my sister. For this I must love you and you must love me."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Love? I love nothing! I will kill you and so make the world better by one less evil." She raised her sword again.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329 No!}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 " cried T'sain in anguish. "Why do you wish to harm me? I have done no wrong!"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "You do wrong by existing, and you offend me by coming to mock my own hideous mold."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 T'sain laughed, "Hideous? No. I am beautiful, for }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid13635587 Turjan}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  says so. Therefore you are beautiful, too."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 T'sais' face was like marble.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "You make sport of me."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Never. You are indeed very beautiful."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 T'sais dropped the point of her sword to the ground. Her face relaxed into thought.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Beauty! What is beauty? Can it be that I am blind, that a fiend distorts my vision? Tell me, how does one see beauty?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I don't know," said T'sain. "It seems very plain to me. Is not the play of colors across the sky beautiful?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 T'sais looked up in astonishment. "The harsh glarings? They are either angry or dreary, in either case detestable."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "See how delicate are the flowers, fragile and charming."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "They are parasites, they smell vilely."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 T'sain was puzzled. "I do not know how to explain beauty. You seem to find joy in nothing. Does nothing give you satisfaction?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Only killing and destruction. So then these must be beautiful."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 T'sain frowned. "I would term these evil concepts."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Do you believe so?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I am sure of it."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 T'sais considered. "How can I know how to act? I have been certain, and now you tell me that I do evil!"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 T'sain shrugged. "I have lived little, and I am not wise. Yet I know that everyone is entitled to life. Turjan could explain to you easily."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Who is Turjan?" inquired T'sais.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329\charrsid993056 "He}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329  is a very good man," replied T'}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329\charrsid993056 sain, "and I love him greatly. }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
Soon we go to Earth, where the sky is vast and deep and of dark blue."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Earth. ... If I went to Earth, could I also find beauty and love?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "That may be, for you have a brain to understand beauty, and beauty of your own to attract love."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Then I kill no more, regardless of what wickedness I see. I will ask Pandelume to send me to Earth."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 T'sain stepped forward, put her arms around T'sais, and kissed her.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "You are my sister and I will love you."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid10251720 T\rquote sais\rquote }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  face
 froze. Rend, stab, bite, said her brain, but a deeper surge welled up from her flowing blood, from every cell of her body, to suffuse her with a sudden flush of pleasure. She smiled.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Then\emdash I love you, my sister. I kill no more, and I will find and know beauty on Earth or die."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 T'sais mounted her horse and set out for Earth, seeking love and beauty.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 T'sain stood in the doorway, watching her sister ride off through the colors. Behind her came a shout, and Turjan approached.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "T'sain! Has that frenzied witch harmed you?" He did not wait for a reply. "Enough! I kill her with a spell, that she may wreak no more pain."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He turned to voice a terrible charm of fire, but T'sain put her hand to his mouth.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "No, Turjan, you must not. She has promised to kill no more. She goes to Earth seeking what she may not find in Embelyon."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 So Turjan and T'sain watched T'sais disappear across the many-colored meadow.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Turjan," spoke T'sain.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "What is your wish?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "When we come to Earth, will you find me a black horse like that of T'sais?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Indeed," said Turjan, laughing, as they started back to the house of Pandelume.}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\insrsid10251720\charrsid993056 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\sb120\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10103342 \b\f1\fs26\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 2. MAZIRIAN THE MAGICIAN}{\insrsid993056 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sb120\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10103342 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid993056 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sb120\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid16347429 {\scaps\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 deep in }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 thought, Mazirian the Magician walked his garden. Trees fruit
ed with many intoxications overhung his path, and flowers bowed obsequiously as he passed. An inch above the ground, dull as agates, the eyes of mandrakes followed the tread of his black-slippered feet. Such was Mazirian's garden\emdash 
three terraces growing with strange and wonderful vegetations. Certain plants swam with changing iridescences; others held up blooms pulsing like sea-anemones, purple, green, lilac, pink, yellow. Here grew trees like feather parasols}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid10251720 , trees with transparent trunks }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 threaded with red and yellow veins, trees with foliage like metal foil, each leaf a different metal\emdash 
copper, silver, blue tantalum, bronze, green indium. Here blooms like bubbles tugged gently upward from glazed green leaves, there a shrub bore a thousand pipe-shaped blosso
ms, each whistling softly to make music of the ancient Earth, of the ruby-red sunlight, water seeping through black soil, the languid winds. And beyond the roqual hedge the trees of the forest made a tall wall of mystery. In this waning hour of Earth's li
fe no man could count}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid6227902  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
himself familiar with the glens, the glades, the dells and deeps, the secluded clearings, the ruined pavilions, the sun-dappled pleasaunces, the gullys and heights, the various brooks, freshets, ponds, the meadows, thickets, brakes and rocky outcrops.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }\pard \ql \fi360\li0\ri0\sb120\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10103342 {\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
Mazirian paced his garden with a brow frowning in thought. His step was slow and his arms were clenched behind his back. There was one who had brought him puzzlement, doubt, and a great desire: a delightful woman-creature who dwelt in the 
woods. She came to his garden half-laughing and always wary, riding a black horse with eyes like golden crystals. Many times had Mazirian tried to take her; always her horse had borne her from his varied enticements, threats, and subterfuges.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Agonized scre
aming jarred the garden. Mazirian, hastening his step, found a mole chewing the stalk of a plant-animal hybrid. He killed the marauder, and the screams subsided to a dull gasping. Mazirian stroked a furry leaf and the red mouth hissed in pleasure.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Then: "K
-k-k-k-k-k-k," spoke the plant. Mazirian stooped, held the rodent to the red mouth. The mouth sucked, the small body slid into the stomach-bladder underground. The plant gurgled, eructated, and Mazirian watched with satisfaction.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The sun had swung low in t
he sky, so dim and red that the stars could be seen. And now Mazirian felt a watching presence. It would be the woman of the forest, for thus had she disturbed him before. He paused in his stride, feeling for the direction of the gaze.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He shouted a spell o
f immobilization. Behind him the plant-animal froze to rigidity and a great green moth wafted to the ground. He whirled around. There she was, at the edge of the forest, closer than ever she had approached before. Nor did she move as he advanced. Mazirian
'
s young-old eyes shone. He would take her to his manse and keep her in a prison of green glass. He would test her brain with fire, with cold, with pain and with joy. She should serve him with wine and make the eighteen motions of allurement by yellow lamp
-light. Perhaps she was spying on him; if so, the Magician would discover immediately, for he could call no man friend and had forever to guard his garden.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She was but twenty paces distant\emdash then there was a}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid7170807  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 thud and pound of black hooves as 
she wheeled her mount and fled into the forest}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The Magician flung down his cloak in rage. She held a guard\emdash a counter-spell, a rune of protection\emdash 
and always she came when he was ill-prepared to follow. He peered into the murky depths, glimpsed the wanness of her body flitting through a shaft of red light, then black shade and she was gone . . . Was she a witch? Did she come of her own volition, or
\emdash more likely\emdash had an enemy sent her to deal him inquietude? If so, who might be guiding her? There was Prince Kand
ive the Golden, of Kaiin, whom Mazirian had bilked of his secret of renewed youth. There was Azvan the Astronomer, there was Turjan\emdash 
hardly Turjan, and here Mazirian's face lit in a pleasing recollection . .. He put the thought aside. Azvan, at least, he co
uld test He turned his steps to his workshop, went to a table where rested a cube of clear crystal, shimmering with a red and blue aureole. From a cabinet he brought a bronze gong and a silver hammer. He tapped on the gong and the mellow tone sang through
 the room and out, away and beyond. He tapped again and again. Suddenly Azvan's face shone from the crystal, beaded with pain and great terror.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Stay the strokes, Mazirian!" cried Azvan. "Strike no more on the gong of my life!"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Mazirian paused, his hand poised over the gong. "Do you spy on me, Azvan? Do you send a woman to regain the gong?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid7170807 "Not I, Master, not I.I}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  fear you too well." }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid7170807 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "You must deliver me the woman, Azvan; I insist." }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid7170807 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Impossible, Master! I know not who or what she is!" Mazirian made as if t
o strike. Azvan poured forth such a torrent of supplication that Mazirian with a gesture of disgust threw down the hammer and restored the gong to its place. Azvan's face drifted slowly away, and the fine cube of crystal shone blank as before.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Mazirian str
oked his chin. Apparently he must capture the girl himself. Later, when black night lay across the forest, he would seek through his books for spells to guard him through the unpredictable glades. They would be poignant corrosive spells, of such a nature 
that one would daunt the brain of an ordinary man and two render him mad. Mazirian, by dint of stringent exercise, could encompass four of the most formidable, or six of the lesser spells.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He put the project from his mind }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid7170807 and}{\i\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 went to a long vat bathed in a 
flood of green light. Under a wash of clear fluid lay the body of a man, ghastly below the green glare, but of great physical beauty. His torso }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329 ta}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329\charrsid993056 pered}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  from wide shoulders through lean flanks to long strong legs and arched feet; his face was clean and cold with hard flat features. Dusty golden hair clung about his head.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Mazirian stared at the thing, which he had cultivated from a single cell. It needed only intelligence, and this he knew not how to provide. Turjan of Miir held the knowledge, and Turjan\emdash Mazi
rian glanced with a grim narrowing of the eyes at a trap in the floor\emdash refused to part with his secret.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Mazirian pondered the creature in the vat. It was a perfect body; therefore might not the brain be ordered and pliant? He would discover. He set in m}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid7170807 otio
n a device to draw off the l}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
iquid and presently the body lay stark to the direct rays. Mazirian injected a minim of drug into the neck. The body twitched. The eyes opened, winced in the glare. Mazirian turned away the projector.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Feebly the creature in the vat moved its arms and feet, as if unaware of their use. Mazirian watched intently; perhaps he had stumbled on the right synthesis for the brain.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Sit up!" commanded the Magician.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The creature fixed its eyes upon him, and reflexes joined muscle to muscle. It gave a throaty roar and sprang from the vat at Mazirian's throat}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid7170807 .}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  In spite of }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329 Maz}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329\charrsid993056 i}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329 r}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329\charrsid993056 ian's}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  strength it caught him and shook him like a doll.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 For all Mazirian's magic he was helpless. The mesmeric spell had been expended, and he had none other in his brain. In any event he could not have uttered the space-twisting syllables }{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid7170807 with that mindless clutch at his}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  throat.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 His hand closed on the neck of a leaden carboy. He swung and struck the head of his creature, which slumped to the floor.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Mazirian, not entirely dissatisfied, studied the glistening body at his feet. The spinal coordination had functioned well. At his table he mixed a white potion, and, liftin
g the golden head, poured the fluid into the lax mouth. The creature stirred, opened its eyes, propped itself on its elbows. The madness had left its face\emdash but Mazirian sought}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid7170807  }{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 in vain for the glimmer of intelligence. The eyes were as vacant as those of a lizard.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
The Magician shook his head in annoyance. He went to the window and his brooding profile was cut black against the oval panes . . . Turjan once more? Under, the most dire inquiry Turjan had kept his secret close. Mazirian's thin mouth curved wryly. P
erhaps if he inserted another angle in the passage ...}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The sun had gone from the sky and there was dimness in Mazirian's garden. His white night-blossoms opened and their captive gray moths fluttered from bloom to bloom. Mazirian pulled open the trap in th
e floor and descended stone stairs. Down, down, down ... At last a passage intercepted at right angles, lit with the yellow light of eternal lamps. To the left were his fungus beds, to the right a stout oak and iron door, locked with three locks. Down and
 ahead the stone steps continued, dropping into blackness.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Mazirian unlocked the three locks, flung wide the door. The room within was bare except for a stone pedestal supporting a glass-topped box. The box measured a yard on a side and was four or five inc
hes high. Within the box\emdash  actually a squared passageway, a run with four right angles\emdash 
moved two small creatures, one seeking, the other evading. The predator was a small dragon with furious red eyes and a monstrous fanged mouth. It waddled along the passag
e on six splayed legs, twitching its tail as it went. The other stood only half the size of the dragon\emdash 
a strong-featured man, stark naked, with a copper fillet binding his long black hair. He moved slightly faster than his pursuer, which still kept relentless chase, using a measure of craft, speeding, doubling back, lurking at the angle }{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid11882119 in case the man should unwarily }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 step around. By holding himself continually alert, the man was able to stay beyond the reach of the fangs. The man was Turjan, whom Mazirian 
by trickery had captured several weeks before, reduced in size and thus imprisoned.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Mazirian watched with pleasure as the reptile sprang upon the momentarily relaxing man, who jerked himself clear by the thickness of his skin. It was time, Mazirian thought
, to give both rest and nourishment. He dropped panels across the passage, separating it into halves, isolating man from beast. To both he gave meat and pannikins of water.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Turjan slumped in the passage.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Ah," said Mazirian, "you are fatigued. You desire rest?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Turjan remained silent, his eyes closed. Time and the world had lost meaning for him. The only realities were the gray passage and the interminable flight. At unknown intervals came food and a few hours rest.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Think of the blue sky," said Mazirian, "the white stars, your castle Miir by the river Derna; think of wandering free in the meadows."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The muscles at Turjan's mouth twitched.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Consider, you might crush the little dragon under your heel."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Turjan looked up. "I would prefer to crush your neck, Mazirian."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Mazirian was unperturbed. 'Tell me, how do you invest your vat creatures with intelligence? Speak, and you go free."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Turjan laughed, and there was madness in his laughter.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Tell you? And then? You would kill me with hot oil in a moment."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Mazirian's thin mouth drooped petulantly.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Wretched man, I know how to make you speak. If your mouth were stuffed, waxed and sealed, you would speak! Tomorrow I take a nerve from your arm and draw coarse cloth along its length."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The small Turjan, sitting with his legs across the passageway, drank his water and said nothing.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 'Tonight," said Mazirian with studied malevolence, "I add an angle and change your run to a pentagon."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Turjan paused and looked up through the glass cover at his enemy. Then he slowly sipped his wa
ter. With five angles there would be less time to evade the charge of the monster, less of the hall in view from one angle.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Tomorrow," said Mazirian, "you will need all your agility." But another matter occurred to him. He eyed Turjan }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329\charrsid993056 speculatively}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 . "Yet even this I spare you if you assist me with another problem."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "What is your difficulty, febrile Magician?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 'The image of a woman-creature haunts my brain, and I would capture her." Mazirian's eyes went misty at the}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid11882119  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
thought. "Late afternoon she comes to the edge of my garden riding a great black horse\emdash you know her, Turjan?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Not I, Mazirian." Turjan sipped his water.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Mazirian continued. "She has sorcery enough to ward away Felojun's Second Hypnotic Spell\emdash or perhaps she has some protective rune. When I approach, she flees into the forest."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "So then?" asked Turjan, nibbling the meat Mazirian had provided.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Who may this woman be?" demanded Mazirian, peering down his long nose at the tiny captive.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "How can I say?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I must capture her," said Mazirian abstractedly: "What spells, what spells?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Turjan looked up, although he could see the Magician only indistinctly through the cover of glass.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Release me, Mazirian, and on my word as a Chosen Hierarch of the Maram-Or, I will deliver you this girl."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "How would you do this?" asked the suspicious Mazirian.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Pursue her into the }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid11882119 forest with my best Live Boots }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 and a headful of spells."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "You would fare no better than I," retorted the Magician. "I give you freedom when I know the synthesis of your vat-things. I myself will pursue the woman."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Turjan lowered his head that the Magician might not read his eyes.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "And as for me, Mazirian?" he inquired after a moment.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I will treat with you when I return."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "And if you do not return?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Mazirian stroked his chin and smiled, revealing fine white teeth. "The dragon could devour you now, if it were not for your cursed secret."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The Magician climbed the stairs. Midnight found him in his study, poring through leather-bound tomes an
d untidy portfolios ... At one time a thousand or more runes, spells, incantations, curses and sorceries had been known. The reach of Grand Motholam\emdash Ascolais, the Ide of }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329 Kau}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329\charrsid993056 chique}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 , Almery to the South, the Land of the Falling Wall to the East\emdash swarmed with sorcerers of every description, of whom the chief was the Arch-Necromancer 
}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329\charrsid993056 Phandaal}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 . A hundred spells Phandaal personally had formulated\emdash 
though rumor said that demons whispered at his ear when he wrought magic. Pontecilla the Pious, then ruler of Grand Mot
holam, put Phandaal to torment, and after a terrible night, he killed Phandaal and outlawed sorcery throughout the land. The wizards of Grand Motholam fled like beetles under a strong light; the lore was dispersed and forgotten, until now, at this dim tim
e, with the sun dark, wilderness obscuring Ascolais, and the white city Kaiin half in ruins, only a few more than a hundred spells remained to the knowledge of man. Of these, Mazirian had access to seventy-three, and gradually, by }{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329\charrsid993056 stratagem}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  and negotiation, was securing the others.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
Mazirian made a selection from his books and with great effort forced five spells upon his brain: Phandaal's Gyrator, Felojun's Second Hypnotic Spell, The Excellent Prismatic Spray, The Charm of Untiring Nourishment, and the Spell
 of the Omnipotent Sphere. This accomplished, Mazirian drank wine and retired to his couch.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The following day, when the sun hung low, Mazirian went to walk in his garden. He had but short time to wait. As he loosened the earth at the roots of his moon-gera
niums a soft rustle and stamp told that the object of his desire had appeared.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She sat upright in the saddle, a young woman of exquisite configuration. Mazirian slowly stooped, as not to startle her, put his feet into the Live Boots and secured them above the knee.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
He stood up. "Ho, girl," he cried, "you have come again. Why are you here of evenings? Do you admire the roses? They are vividly red because live red blood flows in their petals. If today you do not flee, I will make you the gift of one."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Maziria
n plucked a rose from the shuddering bush and advanced toward her, fighting the surge of the Live Boots. He had taken but four steps when the woman dug her knees into the ribs of her mount and so plunged off through the trees.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Mazirian allowed full scope to the life in his boots. They gave a great bound, and another, and another, and he was off in full chase.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 So Mazirian entered the forest of fable. On all sides mossy boles twisted up to support the high panoply of leaves. At intervals shafts of sunshine drifted through to}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid7563172  }{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 lay carmine blots on the turf. In the shade long-stemmed flowers and fragile fungi sprang from the humus; in this ebbing hour of Earth nature was mild and relaxed.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Mazirian in his Live Boots bounded with great speed through the forest, yet the black horse, running with no strain, stayed easily ahead.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 For several leagues the woman rode, her hair flying behind like a pennon. She looked back and Mazirian saw the face ov
er her shoulder as a face in a dream. Then she bent forward; the golden-eyed horse thundered ahead and soon was lost to sight. Mazirian followed by tracing the trail}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid13635587  in }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 the sod.}
{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The spring and drive began to leave the Live Boots, for they had come far and 
at great speed. The monstrous leaps became shorter and heavier, but the strides of the horse, shown by the tracks, were also shorter and slower. Presently Mazirian entered a meadow and saw the horse, riderless, cropping grass. He stopped short. The entire
 expanse of tender herbiage lay before him. The trail of the horse leading into the glade was clear, but there was no trail leaving. The woman therefore had dismounted somewhere behind\emdash 
how far he had no means of knowing. He walked toward the horse, but the creature shied and bolted through the trees. Mazirian made one effort to follow, and discovered that his Boots hung lax and flaccid\emdash dead.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He kicked them away, cursing the day and his ill-fortune. Shaking the cloak free behind him, a baleful tension shining on his face, he started back along the trail.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 In this section of the forest, outcroppings of black and green rock, basalt and serpentine, were frequent\emdash 
forerunners of the crags over the River Derna. On one of these rocks Mazirian saw a tiny man-thing mounted on a dragon-fly. He had skin of a greenish cast; he wore a gauz}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid2456058 y smock and carried a lance twic}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 e his own length.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Mazirian stopped. The Twk-man looked down stolidly.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Have you seen a woman of my race passing by, Twk-man?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I have seen such a woman," responded the Twk-man after a moment of deliberation.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Where may she be found?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "What may I expect for the information?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Salt\emdash as much as you can bear away."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The Twk-man flourished his lance.  "Salt? No. Liane}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid2456058  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 the Wayfarer provides the chieftain Dandanflores salt }{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329\charrsid993056 fo}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329 r}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  all the tribe."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Mazirian could su}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid2456058 rmise the services for which the}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  bandit-troubadour paid s}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid2456058 
alt. The Twk-men, flying fast on}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  their dragon-flies, saw all that happened in the forest}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "A vial of oil from my telanxis blooms?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Good," said the Twk-man. "Show me the vial."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Mazirian did so.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "She left the trail at the lightning-blasted oak lying a little before you. She made directly for the river valley, the shortest route to the lake."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Mazirian laid the vial beside the dragon-fly and went }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329 off}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
 toward the river oak. The Twk-man watched him go, then dismounted and lashed the vial to the underside of the dragon-fly}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid2456058 , next to the skein of fine hair}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
 the woman had given him thus to direct Mazirian.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The Magician turned at the oak and s
oon discovered the trail over the dead leaves. A long open glade lay before him, sloping gently to the river. Trees towered to either side and the long sundown rays steeped one side in blood, left the other deep in black shadow. So deep was the shade that
 Mazirian did not see the creature seated on a fallen tree; and he sensed it only as it prepared to leap on his back.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Mazirian sprang about to face the thing, which subsided again to sitting posture. It was a Deodand, formed and featured like a handsome man
, finely muscled, but with a dead black lusterless skin and long slit eyes.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Ah, Mazirian, you roam the woods far from home," the black thing's soft voice rose through the glade.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The Deodand, Mazirian knew, craved his body for meat. How had the girl escaped? Her trail led directly past.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I come seeking, Deodand. Answer my questions, and I undertake to feed you much flesh."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The Deodand's eyes glinted, flitting over Mazirian's body. "You may in any event, Mazirian. Are you with powerful spells today?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I am. Tell me, how long has it been since the girl passed? Went she fast, slow, alone or in company? Answer, and I give you meat at such time as you desire."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The Deodand's lips curled m
ockingly. "Blind Magician! She has not left the glade." He pointed, and Mazirian followed the direction of the dead black arm. But he jumped back as the Deodand sprang. From his mouth gushed the syllables of Phandaal's Gyrator Spell. The Deodand was jerke
d off his feet and flung high}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid13635587  in }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
the air, where he hung whirling, high and low, faster and slower, up to the tree-tops, low to the ground. Mazirian watched with a half-smile. After a moment he brought the Deodand low and caused the rotations to slacken.}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid2456058 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid2456058\charrsid993056  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Will you die quickly or slow?" asked Mazirian. "Help me and I kill you at once. Otherwise you shall rise high where the pelgrane fly."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Fury and fear choked the Deodand.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "May dark Thial spike your eyes! May Kraan hold your living brain in acid!" And it added such charges that Mazirian felt forced to mutter countercurses.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Up then," said Mazirian at last, with a wave of his hand. The black sprawling body jerked high above the tree-tops to revolve slowly in the crimson bask of setting sun. In a moment a mottled
 bat-shaped thing with hooked snout swept close and its beak tore the black leg before the crying Deodand could kick it away. Another and another of the shapes flitted across the sun.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Down,}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid15620017  Mazirian!}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 " came the faint call. "I tell what I know."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Mazirian brought }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid15620017 him}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  close to earth.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
"She passed alone before you came. I made to attack her but she repelled me with a handful of thyle-dust. She went to the end of the glade and took the trail to the river. This trail leads also past the lair of Thrang. So is she l
ost, for he will sate himself on her till she dies."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Mazirian rubbed his chin. "Had she spells with her?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I know not. She will need strong magic to escape the demon Thrang."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Is there anything else to tell?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Nothing."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Then you may die." And Mazirian cau
sed the creature to revolve at ever greater speed, faster and faster, until there was only a blur. A strangled wailing came and presently the Deodand's frame parted. The head shot like a bullet far down the glade; arms, legs, viscera flew in all direction
s.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Mazirian went his way. At the end of the glade the trail led steeply down ledges of dark green serpentine to the}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid15620017  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
River Derna. The sun had set and shade filled the valley Mazirian gained the riverside and set off downstream to ward a far shimmer known as Sanra Water, the Lake }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid15620017 of}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  Dreams.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 An evil odor came to the air, a stink of putrescence and filth. Mazirian went ahead more cautiously, for the lair }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid15620017 of}{\i\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  }{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Thrang the ghoul-bear was near, and in the air was the feel of magic\emdash strong brutal sorcery his own more subtle spells might not contain.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The sound of voices reached him, the throaty tones of Thrang and gasping cries of terror. Mazirian stepped around a shoulder of rock, inspected the origin of the sounds.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Thrang's lair was 
an alcove in the rock, where a fetid pile of grass and skins served him for a couch. He had built a rude pen to cage three women, these wearing many bruises on their bodies and the effects of much horror on their faces. Thrang had taken them from the trib
e
 that dwelt in silk-hung barges along the lake-shore. Now they watched as he struggled to subdue the woman he had just captured. His round gray man's face was contorted and he tore away her jerkin with his human hands. But she held away the great sweating
 body with an amazing dexterity. Mazirian's eyes narrowed. Magic, magic!}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 So he stood watching, considering how to destroy Thrang with no harm to the woman. But she spied him over Thrang's shoulder.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "See," she panted, "Mazirian has come to kill you."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid15620017 Thrang twisted ab}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
out. He saw Mazirian and came charging on all fours, venting roars of wild passion. Mazirian later wondered if the ghoul had cast some sort of spell, for a strange paralysis strove to bind his brain. Perhaps the spell lay in the sight of Thrang's
 raging graywhite face, the great arms thrust out to grasp.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Mazirian shook off the spell, if such it were, and uttered a spell of his own, and all the valley was lit by streaming darts of fire, lashing in from all directions to split Thrang's blundering bo
dy in a thousand places. This was the Excellent Prismatic Spray\emdash many-colored stabbing lines. Thrang was dead almost at once, purple blood flowing from countless holes where the radiant rain had pierced him.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 But Mazirian heeded little. The girl had fled. Mazirian saw her white form running along the river toward the lake, and took up the chase, heedless of the piteous cries of the three women in the pen.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The lake presently lay before him, a great sheet of water whose further rim was but dimly visible. Maziri
an came down to the sandy shore and stood seeking across the dark face of Sanra Water, the Lake of Dreams. Deep night with only a verge of afterglow ruled the sky, and stars glistened on the smooth surface. The water lay cool and still, }{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329 tideless }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329\charrsid993056 as}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  all Earth's waters had been since the moon had departed the sky.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Where was the woman? There, a pale white form, quiet in the shadow across the river. Mazirian stood on the riverbank, tall and commanding, a light breeze ruffling the cloak around his legs.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Ho, girl," he called. "It is I, Mazirian, who saved you from Thrang. Come close, that I may speak to you."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "At this distance I hear you well, Magician," she replied. 'The closer I approach the farther I must flee."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Why then do you flee? Return with me and you shall be mistress of many secrets and hold much power."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She laughed. "If I wanted these, Mazirian, would I have fled so far?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Who are you then that you desire not the secrets of magic?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "To you, Mazirian, I am nameless, lest you curse me. Now I go where you may not come." She ran down the shore, waded slowly out till the water circled her waist, then sank out of sight. She was gone.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Mazirian paused indecisively. It was not good to use so many spells and thus shear himself of power. What might exist below the
 lake? The sense of quiet magic was there, and though he was not at enmity with the Lake Lord, other beings might resent a trespass. However, when the figure of the girl did not break the surface, he uttered the Charm of Untiring Nourishment and entered t
he cool waters.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
He plunged deep through the Lake of Dreams, and as he stood on the bottom, his lungs at ease by virtue of the charm, he marveled at the fey place he had come upon. Instead of blackness a green light glowed everywhere and the water was but li
ttle less clear than air. Plants undulated to the current and with them moved the lake flowers,}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid599701  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
soft with blossoms of red, blue and yellow. In and out swam large-eyed fish of many shapes.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The bottom dropped by rocky steps to a wide plain where trees of the under}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid599701 l}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
ake floated up from slender stalks to elaborate fronds and purple water-fruits, and so till the misty wet distance veiled all. He saw the woman, a white water nymph now, her hair li
ke dark fog. She half-swam, half-ran across the sandy floor of the water-world, occa}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid599701 sionally looking back over her }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 shoulder. Mazirian came after, his cloak streaming out behind.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He drew nearer to her, exulting. He must punish her for leading him so far . .
 . The ancient stone stairs below his work-room led deep and at last opened into chambers that grew ever vaster as one went deeper. Mazirian had found a rusted cage in one of these chambers. A week or two locked in the blackness would curb her willfulness
. And once he had dwindled a woman small as his thumb and kept her in a little glass bottle with two buzzing flies . . .}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 A ruined white temple showed through the green. There were many columns, some toppled, some still upholding the pediment. The woman ente
red the great portico under the shadow of the architrave. Perhaps she was attempting to elude him; he must follow closely. The white body glimmered at the far end of the nave, swimming now over the rostrum and into a semi-circular alcove behind.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Mazirian f
ollowed as fast as he was able, half-swimming, half-walking through the solemn dimness. He peered across the murk. Smaller columns here precariously upheld a dome from which the keystone had dropped. A sudden fear smote him, then realization as he saw the
 flash of movement from above. On all sides the columns toppled in, and an avalanche of marble blocks tumbled at his head. He jumped frantically back.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The commotion ceased, the white dust of the ancient mortar drifted away. On the pediment of the main temple the woman kneeled on slender knees, staring down to see how well she had killed Mazirian.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She had failed. Two columns, by sheerest luck, had crashed
 to either side of him, and a slab had protected his body from the blocks. He moved his head painfully. Through a chink in the tumbled marble he could see the woman, leaning to discern his body. So she would kill him? He, Mazirian, who had already lived m
ore years than he}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid599701  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
could easily reckon? So much more would she hate and fear him later. He called his charm, the Spell of the Omnipotent Sphere. A film of force formed around his body, expanding to push aside all that resisted. When the marble ruins had been
 thrust back, he destroyed the sphere, regained his feet, and glared about for the woman. She was almost out of sight, behind a brake of long purple kelp, climbing the slope to the shore. With all his power he set out in pursuit.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 T'sain dragged herself up 
on the beach. Still behind her came Mazirian the Magician, whose power had defeated each of her plans. The memory of his face passed before her and she shivered. He must not take her now.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Fatigue and despair slowed her feet. She had set out with but two spells, the Charm of Untiring Nourishment and a spell affording strength to her arms \emdash 
 the last permitting her to hold off Thrang and tumble the temple upon Mazirian. These were exhausted; she was bare of protection; but, on the other hand, Mazirian could have nothing left.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Perhaps he was ignorant of the vampire-weed. She ran up the slope and stood behind a patch of pale, wind-beaten grass. And now Mazirian came from the lake, a spare form visible against the shimmer of the water.
}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She retreated, keeping the innocent patch of grass between them. If the grass failed \emdash  her mind quailed at the thought of what she must do.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Mazirian strode into the grass. The sickly blades became sinewy fingers. They twined about his ankles, holding him in an unbreakable grip, while others sought to find his skin.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 So Mazirian chanted his last spell \emdash 
 the incantation of paralysis, and the vampire grass grew lax and slid limply to earth. T'sain watched with dead hope. He was now close upon her, his cloak flapping behind. Had he no weak
ness? Did not his fibers ache, did not his breath come short? She whirled and fled across the meadow, toward a grove of black trees. Her skin chilled at the deep shadows, the somber frames. But the thud of the Magician's feet was loud. She plunged into th
e dread shade. Before all in the grove awoke she must go as far as possible.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Snap! A thong lashed at her. She continued to run. Another and another\emdash she fell. Another great whip a}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid599701 nd another beat at}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
 her. She staggered up, and on, holding her arms before her face. Snap! The flails whistled through the air, and the last blow twis}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid599701 ted her around. So she saw Mazi}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 rian.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He fought. As the blows rained on him, he tried to seize the whips and break them. But they were supple and springy beyond his powers, and jerked awa
y to beat at him again. Infuriated by his resistance, they concentrated on the unfortunate Magician, who foamed and fought with transcendent fury, and T'sain was permitted to crawl to the edge of the grove with her life.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She looked back in awe at the expre
ssion of Mazirian's lust for life. He staggered about in a cloud of whips, his furious obstinate figure dimly silhouetted. He weakened and tried to flee, and then he fell. The blows pelted at him \emdash 
on his head, shoulders, the long legs. He tried to rise but fell back.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
T'sain closed her eyes in lassitude. She felt the blood oozing from her broken flesh. But the most vital mission yet remained. She reached her feet, and reelingly set forth. For a long time the thunder of many blows reached her ears.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Mazirian's garden was surpassingly beautiful by night. The star-blossoms spread wide, each of magic perfection, and the captive half-vegetable moths flew back and forth. Phosphorescent water-}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329\charrsid993056 lilies}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  floated like charming faces on the pond and the bush which Mazirian had brought from far Almery in the south tinctured the air with sweet fruity perfume.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 T'sain, weaving and gasping, now came groping through the garden. Certain of the flowers awoke and regarded her curiously. The half-animal hybrid sleepily chittered at he
r, thinking to recognize Mazirian's step. Faintly to be heard was the wistful music of the blue-cupped flowers singing of ancient nights when a white moon swam the sky, and great storms and clouds and thunder ruled the seasons.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 T'sain passed unheeding. She
 entered Mazirian's house, found the workroom where glowed the eternal yellow lamps. Mazirian's golden-haired vat-thing sat up suddenly and stared at her with his beautiful vacant eyes.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She found Mazirian's keys in the cabinet, and managed}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid5588343  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 to claw open the
 trap door. Here she slumped to rest and let the pink gloom pass from her eyes. Visions began to come\emdash 
Mazirian, tall and arrogant, stepping out to kill Thrang; the strange-hued flowers under the lake; Mazirian, his magic lost, fighting the whips . . . She was brought from the half-trance by the vat-thing timidly fumbling with her hair.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She shook herself awake, and half-walked, half-fell down the stairs. She unlocked the thrice-bound door, thrust it open with almost the last desperate urge of her body. She w
andered in to clutch at the pedestal where the glass-topped box stood and Turjan and the dragon were playing their desperate game. She flung the glass crashing to the floor, gently lifted Turjan out and set him down.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The spell was disrupted by the touch of the rune at her wrist, and Turjan became a man again. He looked aghast at the nearly unrecognizable T'sain.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She tried to smile up at him.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Turjan\emdash you are free\emdash "}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "And Mazirian?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "He is dead." She slumped wearily to the stone floor and lay limp. Turjan surveyed her with an odd emotion in his eyes.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "T'sain, dear creature of my mind," he whispered, "more noble are you than I, who used the only life you knew for my freedom."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He lifted her body in his arms.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "But I shall restore you to the vats. With your brain I build another T'sain, as lovely as you. We go."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He bore her up the stone stairs.}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid5588343 
\par }{\f36\fs24\insrsid5588343\charrsid993056 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\sb120\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10103342 \b\f1\fs26\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 3. T'SAIS}{\insrsid993056 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sb120\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10103342 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid993056 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\scaps\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 t'sais came }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 riding from the grove. She checked her horse at the verge as if in indecision, and sat looki}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid10122069 
ng across the shimmering pastel }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 meadow toward the river . . . She stirred her knees and the horse proceeded across the turf.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }\pard \ql \fi360\li0\ri0\sb120\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10103342 {\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
She rode deep in thought, and overhead the sky rippled and cross-rippled, like a vast expanse of windy water, in tremendous shadows from horizon to horizon. Light 
from above, worked and refracted, flooded the land with a thousand colors, and thus, as T'sais rode, first a green beam flashed on her, then ultramarine, and topaz and ruby red, and the landscape changed in similar timings and subtlety.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 T'sais closed her e
yes to the shifting lights. They rasped her nerves, confused her vision. The red glared, the green stifled, the blues and purples hinted at mysteries beyond knowledge. It was as if the entire universe had been expressly designed with an eye to jarring her
, provoking her to fury. ... A butterfly with wings patterned like a precious rug flitted by, and T'sais made to}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid2363740  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
strike at it with her rapier. She restrained herself with great effort; for T'sais was of a passionate nature and not given to restraint. She looked down at the flowers below her horse's feet\emdash 
pale daisies, blue-bells, Judas-creeper, orange sunbursts. No more would she stamp them to pulp, rend them from their roots. It had been suggested to her that the flaw lay not in the universe but in herself. 
Swallowing her vast enmity toward the butterfly and the flowers and the changing lights of the sky, she continued across the meadow.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 A bank of dark trees rose above her, and beyond were clumps of rushes and the gleam of water, all changing in hue as the light changed in the sky. She turned and followed the river bank to the long low manse.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She dismounted, walked slowly to the door of black smoky wood, which bore the image of a sardonic face. She pulled at the tongue and inside a bell tolled. There was no re
ply. "Pandelume!" she called. Presently there was a muffled answer: "Enter." She pushed open the door and came into a high-ceilinged room, bare except for a padded settee, a dim tapestry.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "What is your wish?" The voice, mellow and of an illimitable melancholy, came from beyond the wall.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Pandelume, today I have learned that killing is evil, and further that my eye}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid2977534 s trick me}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
, and that beauty is where I see only harsh light and evil forms."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 For a period Pandelume maintained a silence; then the muffled voice came, replying to the implicit plea for knowledge.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "That is, for the most part, true. Living creatures, if nothing else, have the right to life. It is their only truly precious possession,
 and the stealing of life is a wicked theft. ... As for the other, the fault is not with you. Beauty lies everywhere free to be seen by all\emdash 
by all except you. For this I feel sorrow, for I created you. I built your primal cell; I stamped the strings of lif
e with the pattern of your body and brain. And in spite of my craft I erred, so that when you climbed from the vat, I found that I had molded a flaw into your brain; that you saw ugliness in beauty, evil in good. True ugliness, true evil you have never se
en, for in Embelyon there is nothing wicked or foul . . . Should you be so unfortunate to encounter these, I fear for your brain."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Cannot you change me?" cried T'sais. "You are a magician. Must I live my life out blind to joy?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The shadow of a sigh penetrated the wall.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
"I am a magician indeed, with knowledge of every spell yet devised, the sleight of runes, incantations, designs, exorcisms, talismans. I am Master Mathematician, the first since Phandaal, yet I can do nothing to your brain without destroying 
your intelligence, your personality, your soul\emdash for I am no god. A god may will things to existence; I must rely on magic, the spells which vibrate and twist space."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Hope faded from T'sais' eyes. "I wish to go to Earth," she said presently. "The sky of Earth is a steady blue, and a red sun moves over the horizons. I tire of Embelyon where there is no voice but yours."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Earth," mused Pandelume. "A dim place, ancient beyond knowledge. Once it was a tall world of cloudy mountains and bright rivers, and the sun 
was a white blazing ball. Ages of rain and wind have beaten and rounded the granite, and the sun is feeble and red. The continents have sunk and risen. A million cities have lifted towers, have fallen to dust. In place of the old peoples a few thousand st
range souls live. There is evil on Earth, evil distilled by time. . . . Earth is dying and in its twilight..." he paused.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 T'sais said doubtfully: "Yet I have heard Earth is a place of beauty, and I would know beauty, even though I die."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "How will you know beauty when you see it?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "All human beings know beauty . . . Am I not human?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Of course."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Then I will find beauty, and perhaps even\emdash " T'sais faltered over the word, so alien was it to her mind, yet so full of disturbing implication.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Pandelume was silent. At last:}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
"You shall go if you wish. I will aid you as I may. I will give you runes to ward you from magic; I will strike life into your sword; and I will give you advice, which is this: Beware of men, for men loot beauty to sate their lust. Permit intimacy
 to none ... I will give you a bag of jewels, which are riches on Earth. With these}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid2977534  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
you may attain much. Yet, again, show them nowhere, for certain men will slay for a copper bit."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 A heavy silence came, a weight was gone from the air.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Pandelume," called T'sais softly. There was no reply.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 After a moment Pandelume returned, and the sense of his presence reached to her mind.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "In a moment," he said, "you may enter this room."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 T'sais waited a period; then, as she was bid, entered the next room.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
"On the bench to the left," came Pandelume's voice, "you will find an amulet and a little sack of gems. Clasp this amulet upon your wrist; it will reflect magic intended evilly against him who utters the spell. This is a most powerful rune; guard it w
ell."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 T'sais obeyed, and tied the jewels inside her sash.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Lay your sword upon this bench, stand upon the rune in the floor and close your eyes tightly. I must enter the room. I charge you, do not attempt to see me\emdash for there are terrible consequences."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 T'sais discarded her sword, stood upon the metal rune, locked her eyes. She heard a slow step, heard the clink of metal, then a high intense shrilling, dying slowly.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Your sword lives," said Pandelume, and his voice sounded strangely loud, coming from so near. "It will kill your enemies with intelligence. Reach your hand and take it."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 T'sais sheathed her slim rapier, now warm and quivering.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Where on Earth will you go?" asked Pandelume. "To the land of men, or to the great ruined wildernesses?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "To Ascolais," said T'sais, for the one who had told her of beauty had spoken of this land.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "As you wish," said Pandelume. "Now hark! If you ever seek to return to Embelyon\emdash "}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "No," said T'sais. "I would rather die."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Please yourself in that regard."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 T'sais remained silent.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Now I will touch you. You will be dizzy a moment\emdash  and then you will open your eyes on Earth. It is almost night, and terrible things rove the dark. So seek shelter quickly."}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid2977534 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid2977534\charrsid993056  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
In high excitement T'sais felt the touch of Pandelume. There was a wavering in her brain, a swift unthinkable flight . . . Strange soil was under her feet, strange air at her face with a sharper tang. She opened her eyes.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The landscape was strange and new.
 There was a dark blue sky, an ancient sun. She stood in a meadow, encircled by tall gloomy trees. These trees were unlike the calm giants of Embelyon; these were dense and brooding, and the shadows were enigmatic. Nothing in sight, nothing of Earth was r
aw or harsh\emdash 
the ground, the trees, the rock ledge protruding from the meadow; all these had been worked upon, smoothed, aged, mellowed. The light from the sun, though dim, was rich, and invested every object of the land, the rocks, the trees, the quiet gras
ses and flowers, with a sense of lore and ancient recollection.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 A hundred paces distant rose the mossy ruins of a long-tumbled castelry. The stones were blackened now by lichens, by smoke, by age; grass grew rank through the rubble\emdash the whole a weird pictur
e in the long light of sunset.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
T'sais slowly approached. Some of the walls yet were standing, stone on weathered stone, the mortar long since dissolved. She moved wonderingly around a great effigy, mouldered, chipped, cracked, almost entirely buried; puzzl
ed a moment at the characters carved in the base. Wide-eyed she stared at what remained of the visage \emdash cruel eyes, sneering mouth, a nose broken off. T'sais shuddered faintly. There was nothing here for her; she turned to go.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 A laugh, high-pitched, gleeful
, rang across the clearing. T'sais, mindful of Pandelume's warnings, waited in a dark recess. Movement flickered between the trees; a man and woman lurched into the failing sunlight; then came a young man treading light as air, singing and whistling. He h
eld a light sword, which he used to prod the two, who were bound.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 They halted before the ruins, close by T'sais, and she could see the faces. The bound man was a thin-faced wretch with a ragged red beard and eyes darting and desperate; the woman was short a
nd plump. Their captor was Liane the Wayfarer. His brown hair waved softly, his features moved in charm and flexibility. He had}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid1447439  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
golden-hazel eyes, large and beautiful, never still. He wore red leather shoes with curled tops, a suit of red and green, a gree
n cloak, and a peaked hat with a red feather. T'sais watched without comprehension. The three were equally vile, of sticky blood, red pulp, inner filth. Liane seemed slightly less ignoble\emdash 
he was the most agile, the most elegant. And T'sais watched with little interest.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Liane deftly threw loops around the ankles of man and woman and pushed them so that they fell among the flints. The man groaned softly, the woman fell to whimpering..}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Liane made a gay flourish of his hat and sprang away to the ruins. Not twen
ty feet from T'sais he slid aside a stone in the ancient flags, came forth with tinder and flint, and kindled a fire. From his pouch he took a bit of meat, which he toasted and ate daintily, sucking his fingers. No word had yet passed. Liane at last stood
 up, stretched, and glanced at the sky. The sun was dropping below the dark wall of trees, and already blue shadows filled the glade.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "To business," cried Liane. His voice was shrill and clear as the call of a flute. "First," and he made a solemnly waggish gesture, "I must assure that our revelations are weighted with soberness and truth."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He ducked into his lair under the flags and brought forth four stout staffs. He laid one of these across the thighs of the man, passed the second across this, through the 
crotch of his captive's legs, so that with slight effort he could crush down at the thighs and up at the small of the back. He tested his device and crowed as the man cried out. He adjusted a similar arrangement upon the woman. T'sais watched in perplexit
y. Evidently the young man was preparing to cause his captives pain. Was this a custom of Earth? But how was she to judge, she who knew nothing of good or evil?}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Liane! Liane!" cried the man. "Spare my wife! She knows nothing! Spare her, and you may have all I possess, and I serve you my lifetime!"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Ho!" laughed Liane, and the feather of his cap quivered. "Thank you, thank you for your offer\emdash 
but Liane wants no faggots of wood, no turnips. Liane likes silk and gold, the gleam of daggers, the sounds a girl makes in love. So thank you\emdash but I seek the brother of}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid882356  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
your wife, and when your wife chokes and screams, you will tell where he hides.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 To T'sa
is the scene began to assume meaning. The two captives were concealing information the young man desired; hence he would hurt them until in desperation they did as he asked. A clever artifice, one which she would hardly have thought of herself.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Now," said Liane, "I must ensure that lies are not artfully mingled into the truth. You see," he confided, "when one is under torment, he is too distraught to invent, to fabricate\emdash 
and hence speaks naught but exactness." He snatched a brand from the fire, wedged it between the man's bound ankles, and instantly leapt to ply the torture lever upon the woman.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I know nothing, Liane!" babbled the man. "I know nothing\emdash oh, indeed!"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Liane stood away with dissatisfaction. The woman had fainted. He snatched the brand away from the man and flung it pettishly into the blaze.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "What a nuisance!" he said, but presently his good spirits reasserted themselves. "Ah well, we have much time." He stroked his pointed chin.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Perhaps you speak truth," he mused. "Perhaps your good wife shall 
be the informant after all." He revived her with slaps and an aromatic which he held under her nose. She stared at him numbly, her face twisted and bloated. "Attend," said Liane. "I enter the second phase of the question. I reason, I think, I theorize. I 
say, perhaps the husband does not know where he whom I seek has fled, perhaps the wife alone knows."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The woman's mouth opened slightly. "He is my brother\emdash please\emdash "}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid9776376 "Ah! So you know!" }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 cried Liane in delight, and strode back and forth before the fire. "Ah, you
 know! We renew the trial. Now attend. With this staff I make jelly of your man's legs, and bring his spine up through his stomach\emdash  unless you speak." He set about his task.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Say nothing\emdash " gasped the man, and lapsed into pain. The woman cursed, sobbed, pleaded. At last: "I tell, I tell you all!" she cried. "Dellare has gone to Efred!"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Liane relaxed his efforts. "Efred. So. In the Land of the Falling Wall." He pursed his lips. "It might be true. But I}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid9776376  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
disbelieve. You must tell me once more, under the influence of the truth-evoker." And he brought a brand from the fire and adjusted it at her ankles\emdash and set to work on the man once more. The woman spoke not.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Speak, woman," snarled Liane, panting. "I am in perspiration with this work." The woman spoke not. Her eyes were wide, and stared glassily upwards.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "She is dead!" cried her husband. "Dead! My wife is dead! Ah\emdash Liane, you demon, you foulness!" he screamed. "I curse you! by Thial, by Kraan\emdash " His voice quavered into high-pitched hysteria.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 T'sais was disturbed. The woman was dead. Was not killing wicked? So Pandelume h}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid9776376 ad said. If the woman were good}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
, as the bearded man had said, then Liane was evil. Things of blood and filth all, of course. Still, it was vile, hurting a live thing till it died.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Knowing nothing of fear, she stepped out from her hiding place and advanced into the fire-light. Liane looked up and sprang back. But the intruder was a slender girl of passionate beauty. He caroled, he danced.
}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Welcome, welcome!" He glared in distaste at the bodies on the ground. "Unpleasant; we must ignore them." He flung his cloak back, ogled her with his luminous hazel eyes, strutted toward her like a plumed cock.
}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "You are lovely, my dear, and I\emdash I am the perfect man; so you shall see."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 T'sais laid her hand on her rapier, and it sprang out by itself. Liane leapt back, alarmed by the blade and likewise by the blaze which glowed deep from the warped brain.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "What means this? Come, come," he fretted. "Put away your steel. It is sharp and hard. You must lay it away. I am a kind man, but I brook no annoyance."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 T'sais stood over the prone bodies. The man looked up at her feverishly. The woman stared at the dark sky.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Liane sprang forward, planning to clasp her while her attention was distracted. The rapier sprang up by itself, darted forward, pierced the agile body.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Liane the Wayfarer sank to his knees coughing blood. T'sais pulled away the rapier, wiped the blood on the gay green cloak, and sheathed it with difficulty. It wished to stab, to pierce, to kill.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Liane lay unconscious. T'sais turned away, sick. A thin voice reached her. "Release me\emdash "}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 T'sais considered, then she cut the bonds. The man stumbled to his wife, stroked her, flung off the bonds, called to her uplifted face. There was no answer. He sprang erect 
in madness and howled into the night. Raising the limp form in his arms he stumbled off into the darkness, lurching, falling, cursing ...}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 T'sais shivered. She glanced from the prone Liane to the black forest where the flickering circle of the firelight fai
led to reach. Slowly, with many backward glances, she left the tumbled ruins, the meadow. The bleeding figure of Liane remained by the dying fire.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The glimmer of flame waned, was lost in the darkness. T'sais groped her way b}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid9776376 etween the looming trunks; and }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 t
he murk was magnified by the twist in her brain. There never had been night in Embelyon, only an opalescent dimming. So T'sais continued down the sighing forest courses, stifled, weighed, yet oblivious to the things she might have met\emdash 
the Deodands, the pelgrane, the prowling erbs (creatures mixed of beasts, man and demon) the gids, who leaps twenty feet across the turf and clasped themselves to their victims.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 T'sais went unmolested, and presently reached the edge of the forest. The ground rose, the trees th
inned, and T'sais come out on an illimitable dark expanse. This was Modavna Moor, a place of history, a tract which had borne the tread of many feet and absorbed much blood. At one famous slaughtering, Golickan Kodek the Conqueror had herded here the popu
l
ations of two great cities, G'Vasan and Bautiku, constricted them in a circle three miles across, gradually pushed them tighter, tighter, tighter, panicked them toward the center within his flapping-armed sub-human cavalry, until at last he had achieved a
 gigantic squirming mound, half a thousand feet high, a pyramid of screaming flesh. It is said that Golickan Kodek mused ten minutes at his monument, then turned and rode his bounding mount back to the land of Laidenur from whence he had come.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The ghosts of
 the ancient populations had paled and dissolved and Modavna Moor was less stifling than the forest. Bushes grew like blots from the ground. A line of rocky crags at the horizon jutted sharp against a faint}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid673334  }{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 violet afterglow. T'sais picked her way across th
e turf, relieved that the sky was open above. A few minutes later she came to an ancient road of stone slab, cracked and broken, bordered by a ditch where luminous star-shaped flowers grew. A wind came sighing off the moor to dampen her face with mist. Sh
e went wearily down the road. No shelter was visible, and the wind whipped coldly at her cloak.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 A rush of feet, a tumble of shapes, and T'sais was struggling against hard grasping hands. She fought for her rapier, but her arms were pinioned.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 One struck a light, fired a torch, to examine his prize. T'sais saw three bearded, scarred rogues of the moor; they wore gray pandy-suits, stained and fouled by mud and filth.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Why, it's a handsome maid!" said one, leering.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I'll seek about her for silver,
" said another and slid his hands with evil intimacy over T'sais' body. He found the sack of jewels, and turned them into his palm, a trickle of hundred-colored fire. "Mark these! The wealth of princes!"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Or sorcerers!" said another. And in sudden doubt they relaxed their holds. But still she could not reach her rapier.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Who are you, woman of the night?" asked one with some respect. "A witch, to have such jewels, and walk Modavna Moor alone?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 T'sais had neither wit nor experience to improvise falsehood.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I am no witch! Release me, you stinking animals!"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "No witch? Then what manner of woman are you? Whence do you come?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I am T'sais, of Embel}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid673334 yon," she cried angrily. "Pande}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
lume created me, and I seek love and beauty on Earth. Now drop your hands, for I would go my way!"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The first rogue chortled. "Ho, ho! Seeking love and beauty! You have achieved }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329\charrsid993056 something}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  of your quest, girl\emdash 
for while we lads a}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid673334 re no beauties, to be sure, Tag}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 man being covered with scab and Lasard lacking his teeth and ears\emdash still we have much lo
ve, hey, lads? We will show you as much love as you desire! Hey, lads?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 And in spite of T'sais horrified outcries, they dragged her across the moor to a stone cabin.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 They entered, and one kindled a roaring fire,  while}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid673334  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
two stripped T'sais of her rapier and flung it in a corner. They locked the door with a great iron key, and released her. She sprang for her sword, but a buffet sent her to the foul floor.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "May that quiet you, fiend-cat!" panted Tagman. "You should be happy," and they renewed their banter. "Admitted we are not beauties, yet we will show you all the love you may wish."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 T'sais crouched in a corner. "I know not what love is," she panted. "In any event I want none of yours!"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Is it possible?" they crowed. "You are yet innocent?" And T'sais listened with eyes glazing as they proceeded to describe in evil detail their concept of love.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 T'sais sprang from her corner in a frenzy, kicking, beating her fists at the moor-men. And when she had been flung into her corner,
 bruised and half-dead, the men brought out a great cask of mead, to fortify themselves for their pleasure.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Now they cast lots as to who should be the first to enjoy the girl. The issue was declared, and here an altercation arose, two claiming that he who 
won had cheated. Angry words evolved, and as T'sais watched, dazed in horror beyond the concept of a normal mind, they fought like bulls in a rut, with great curses, mighty blows. T'sais crept to her rapier, and as it felt her touch, it lofted into the ai
r like a bird. It lunged itself into the fight, dragging T'sais behind. The three shouted hoarsely, the steel flickered\emdash in, out, faster than the eye. Cries, groans\emdash 
and three sprawled on the earthen floor, gaping-mouthed corpses. T'sais found the key, unlocked the door, fled madly through the night.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
She ran over the dark and windy moor, across the road, stumbled into the ditch, dragged herself up the cold muddy bank and sank on her knees . . . This was Earth! She remembered Embelyon, where the most evil thing
s were flowers and butterflies. She remembered how these had aroused her hate.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Embelyon was lost, renounced. And T'sais wept.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 A rustling in the heather aroused her. Aghast she lifted her head, listened. What new outrage to her mind? The sinister sounds again, as of cautious footfalls. She searched the darkness in terror.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 A black figure stole into her sight, creeping along the}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid9076075  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 ditch. In the light of the fireflies she saw him\emdash 
a Deodand, wandered from the forest, a hairless man-thing with charcoal-black skin, 
a handsome face, marred and made demoniac by two fangs gleaming long, sharp and white down his lip. It was clad in a leather harness, and its long slit eyes were fastened hungrily on T'sais. He sprang at her with an exulting cry.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 T'sais stumbled clear, fell, snatched herself up. Wailing, she fled across the moor, insensible to scratching furze, tearing thorn. The Deodand bounded after, venting eerie moans.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Over moor, turf, hummock, briar and brook, across the dark wastes went the chase, the girl fleeing with eyes starting and staring into nothing, the pursuer uttering his wistful moans.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 A loom, a light ahead\emdash a cottage. T'sais, breath coming in sobs, lurched to the threshold. The door mercifully gave. She fell in, slammed the door, dropped the bar. The weight
 of the Deodand thudded against the barrier.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The door was stout, the windows small and crossed by iron. She was safe. She sank to her knees, the breath rasping in her throat, and slowly lapsed into unconsciousness ...}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The man who dwelt in the cottage rose 
from his deep seat at the fire, tall, broad of shoulder, moving with a curiously slow step. He was perhaps a young man, but no one could know, for face and head were draped in a black hood. Behind the eye-slits were steady blue eyes.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The man came to stand 
over T'sais, who lay flung like a doll on the red brick floor. He stooped, lifted the limp form, and carried her to a wide padded bench beside the fire. He removed her sandals, her quivering rapier, her sodden cloak. He brought unguent and applied it to h
er scratches and bruises. He wrapped her in soft flannel blanketing, pillowed her head, and, assured that she was comfortable, once more sat himself by the fire.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The Deodand outside had lingered, and had been watching through the iron-barred window. Now it knocked at the door.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Who's t}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid9076075 here?" called the man in the bla}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 ck hood, twisting about.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I desire the one who has entered. I hunger for her flesh," said the soft voice of the Deodand.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The man in the hood spoke sharply.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Go, before I speak a spell to burn you with fire. Never return!"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I go," said the Deodand, for he greatly feared magic, and departed into the night.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 And the man turned and sat staring into the fire.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 T'sais felt warm pungent liquid in her mouth and opened her eyes. Kneeling beside her was a tall man, hooded in black. One arm supported her shoulders and head, another held a silver spoon to her mouth.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 T'sais shrank away. "Quietly," said the man. "Nothing will harm you." Slowly, doubtfully, she relaxed and lay still.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Red sunlight poured in through the windows, and the cottage was warm. It was paneled in golden wood, with a fretwork painted in red and blue and brown circling the ceiling. Now the man brought mo
re broth from the fire, bread from a locker, and placed them before her. After a moment's hesitation, T'sais ate.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Recollection suddenly came to her; she shuddered, looked wildly around the room. The man noted her taut face. He stooped and laid a hand on her head. T'sais lay quiet, half in dread.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "You are safe here," said the man. "Fear nothing."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 A vagueness came over T'sais. Her eyes grew heavy. She slept.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 When she woke the cottage was empty, and the maroon sunlight slanted i}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid9076075 n from an opposite window. She}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  s
tretched her arms, tucked her hands behind her head, and lay thinking. This man of the black hood, who was he? Was he evil? Everything else of Earth had been past thought. Still, he had done nothing to harm her . . . She spied her garments upon the floor.
 
She rose from the couch and dressed herself. She went to the door and pushed it open. Before her stretched the moor, fading far off beyond the under-slant of the horizon. To her left jutted a break of rocky crags, black shadow and lurid red stones. To the
 right extended the black margin of the forest.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Was this beautiful? T'sais pondered. Her warped brain}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid9076075  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 saw bleakness in the line of the moor, cutting harshness in the crags, and}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid13635587  in }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 the forest\emdash terror.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Was this beauty? At a loss, she twisted her head, squinted. She heard footsteps, jerked about, wide-eyed, expecting anything. It was he of the black hood, and }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329\charrsid993056 T}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329 '}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329\charrsid993056 sais}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  leaned back against the door-jamb.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She watched him approach, tall and strong, slow of step. Why did he wear the hood? Was he ashamed of his face? She could understand something of this, for she herself found the human face repellent\emdash 
an object of watery eye, wet unpleasant apertures, spongy outgrowths.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He halted before her. "Are you hungry?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 T'sais considered. "Yes."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Then we will eat."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He entered the cottage, stirred up the fire, and spitted meat. T'sais stood uncertainly in the background. She had always served herself. She felt an uneasiness: cooperation was an idea she had not yet }{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329\charrsid993056 encountered}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 .}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Presently the man arose, and they sat to eat at his table.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Tell me of yourself," he said after a few moments. So T'sais, who had never learned to be other than artless, told him her story, thus;}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I am T'sais. I came to Earth from Embelyon, where the wizard Pandelume created me."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Embelyon? Where is Embelyon? And who is Pandelume?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Where is Embelyon?" she repeated in puz}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid9076075 zlement. "I don't know. It is in}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
 a place that is not Earth. It is not very large, and lights of many colors come from the sky. Pandelume lives in Embelyon. He is the greatest wizard alive\emdash so he tells me."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Ah,"}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid9076075  the man said. "Perhaps I see .}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 .."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Pandelume created me," continued T'sais, "but there was a flaw in the pattern." And T'sais stared into the fire. "I see the world as a dismal plac
e of horror; all sounds to me are harsh, all living creatures vile, in varying degrees\emdash 
things of sluggish movement and inward filth. During the first of my life I thought only to trample, crush, destroy. I knew nothing but hate. Then I met my sister T'sain, who is as I without the flaw. She told me of love and beauty and happiness\emdash 
and I came to Earth seeking these."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The grave blue eyes studied her.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Have you found them?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "So far," said T'sais in a faraway voice, "I have found only such evil as I never even encountered in my nightmares." Slowly she told him her adventures.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Poor creature," he said and fell to studying her once again.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I think I shall kill myself," said T'sa
is, in the same distant voice, "for what I want is infinitely lost." And the man, watching, saw how the red afternoon sun coppered her skin, noted the loose, black hair, the long thoughtful eyes. He shuddered at the thought of this creature being lost int
o the dust of Earth's forgotten trillions.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "No!" he said sharply. T'sais stared at him in surprise. Surely one's life was one's own, to do with as one pleased.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Have you found nothing on Earth," he asked, "that you would regret leaving?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 T'sais knit her brows. "I can think of nothing\emdash unless it be the peace of this cottage."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The man laughed. "Then this shall be your home, for as long as you wish, and I will try to show you that the world is sometimes good\emdash though in truth\emdash " his voice changed "\emdash 
I have not found it so."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Tell me," said T'sais, "what is your name? Why do you wear the hood?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "My name? Etarr," he said in a voice subtly harsh. "Etarr is enough of it. I wear the mask because of the most wicked woman of Ascolais\emdash Ascolais, Almery, Kauchique\emdash 
the entire world. She made my face such that I cannot abide my own sight."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He relaxed, and gave a weary laugh. "No need for anger any more."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Is she alive still?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Yes, she lives, and no doubt still works evil on all she meets." He sat looking into the
 fire. "One time I knew nothing of this. She was young, beautiful, laden with a thousand fragrances and charming playfulnesses. I lived beside the ocean\emdash 
in a white villa among poplar trees. Across Tenebrosa Bay the Cape of Sad Remembrance reached into the ocean, and when sunset made the sky red and the mountains black, the cape seemed to sleep o}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16338008 n the water like one}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  of the ancient earth-gods . . . All my life I spent here, and was as}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16338008  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
content as one may be while dying Earth spins out its last few courses.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "On
e morning I looked up from my star-charts and saw Javanne walking through the portal. She was as young and slender as yourself. Her hair was a wonderful red, and strands fell before her shoulders. She was very beautiful, and\emdash in her white gown
\emdash pure and innocent.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
"I loved her, and she said she loved me. And she gave me a band of black metal to wear. In my blindness I clasped it to my wrist, never recognizing it for the evil rune it was. And weeks of great delight passed. But presently I found that Javanne was
 one of dark urges that the love of man could never quell. And one midnight I found her in the embrace of a black naked demon, and the sight twisted my mind.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I stood back aghast. I was not seen, and I went slowly away. In the morning she came running acro
ss the terrace, smiling and happy, like a child. 'Leave me,' I told her. 'You are vile beyond calculation.' She uttered a word and the rune on my arm enslaved me. My mind was my own, but my body was hers, forced to obey her words.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "And she made me tell wha
t I had seen, and she revelled and jeered. And she put me through foul degradations, and called up things from Kalu, from Fauvune, from Jeldred, to mock and defile my body. She made me witness her play with these things, and when I pointed out the creatur
e that sickened me the most, by magic she gave me its face, the face I wear now."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Can such women exist?" marvelled T'sais.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Indeed." The grave blue eyes studied her attentively. "At last one night while the demons tumbled me across the crags behind the hil
ls, a flint tore the rune from my aim. I was free; I chanted a spell which sent the shapes shrieking off through the sky, and returned to the villa. "And I met Javanne of the red hair in the great hall, and her eyes were cool and innocent. I drew my knife
 
to stab her throat, but she said 'Hold! Kill me and you wear your demon-face forever, for only I know how to change it.' So she ran blithely away from the villa, and I, unable to bear the sight of the place, came to the moors. And always I seek her, to re
gain my face."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Where is she now?" asked T'sais, whose troubles seemed small compared to those of Etarr the Masked.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Tomorrow night, I know where to find her. It is the night of the Black Sabbath\emdash the night dedicated to evil since the dawn of Earth."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "And you will attend this festival?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Not as a celebrant\emdash though in truth," said Etarr ruefully, "without my hood I would be one of the things who are there, and would pass unnoticed."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 T'sais shuddered and }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16338008 pressed back against the wall. }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  Etarr saw the gesture and sighed..}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Another idea occurred to her. "With all the evil you have suffered, do you still find beauty in the world?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "To be sure," said Etarr. "See how these moors stretch, sheer and clean, of marvellous subtle color. See how the crags rise in grandeur, li
ke the spine of the world. And you," he gazed into her face, "you are of a beauty surpassing all."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Surpassing Javanne?" asked T'sais, and looked in puzzlement as Etarr laughed.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Indeed surpassing Javanne," he assured her.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 T'sais' brain went off at another angle.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "And Javanne, do you wish to revenge yourself against her?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "No," answered Etarr, eyes far away across the moors. "What is revenge? I care nothing for it. Soon, when the sun goes out, men will stare into the eternal
 night, and all will die, and Earth will bear its history, its ruins, the mountains worn to knolls\emdash  all into infinite dark. Why revenge?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Presently they left the cottage and wandered across the moor, Etarr trying to show her beauty\emdash the slow river Scaum flo
wing through green rushes, clouds basking in the wan sunlight over the crags, a bird wheeling on spread wings, the wide smoky sweep of Modavna Moor. And T'sais strove always to make her brain see this beauty, and always did she fail. But she had learned t
o check the wild anger that the sights of the world had once aroused. And her craving to kill diminished, and her face relaxed from its tense set.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 So they wandered on, each to his own thoughts. And they watched the sad glory of the sunset, and they saw the slow white stars raise in the heavens.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Are not the stars beautiful?" whispered Etarr through his black hood. "They have names older than man."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 And T'sais, finding only mournfulness in the sunset, and thinking the stars but small sparks in meaningless patterns, could not answer.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Surely two more unfortunate people do not exist," she sighed.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Etarr said nothing. They walked on}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid13635587  in }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
silence. Suddenly he grasped her arm and pulled her low in the furze. Three great shapes went flapping across the afterglow. "The pelgrane!"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 They flew close overhead\emdash 
gargoyle creatures, with wings creaking like rusty hinges. T'sais caught a glimpse of hard leathern body, great hatchet beak, leering eyes in a wizened face. She shrank against Etarr. The pelgrane flapped across the forest.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Etarr laughed harshly. "You shrink from the visage of the pelgrane. The countenance I wear would put the pelgrane themselves to flight."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The next morning he took her into the woods, and she found the trees mindful of Embelyon. They returned to the cottage in the early afternoon, and Etarr retired to his books.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I am no sorcerer," he told her regretfully. "I am acquainted with but a few simple spells. Yet I make occasional use of magic, which may ward me from danger tonight."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Tonight?" T'sais inquired vaguely, for she had forgotten.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Tonight is the Black Sabbath, and I must go to find Javanne."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I would go with you," said T'sais. "I would see the Black Sabbath, and Javanne also."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
Etarr assured her that the sights and sounds would horrify her and torment her brain. T'sais persisted, and Etarr finally allowed her to follow him, when two hours after sunset he set off in the direction of the crags.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Over the heath, up scaly outcroppings, Etarr picked a way through the dark, with T'sais a slender shadow behind. A great scarp lay across their path. Into a black fissure, up a}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid1596098 
 flight of stone steps, cut in t}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 he immemorial past, and out on top of the cliff, with Modavna Moor a black sea below.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Now Etarr gestured T'sais to great caution. They stole through a gap between two towering rocks; concealed in the shadow, they surveyed the congress below.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 They were overlooking an amphitheater lit by two blazing fi
res. In the center rose a dais of stone, as high as a man. About the fire, about the dais, two-score figures, robed in gray monks-cloth, reeled sweatingly, their faces unseen.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 T'sais felt a premonitory chill. She looked at Etarr doubtfully.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Even here is beauty," he whispered. "Weird and grotesque, but a sight to enchant the mind." T'sais looked again in dim comprehension.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 More of the robed and cowled figures now were weaving before the fires; whence they came T'sais had not observed. It was evident that th
e festival had just begun, that the celebrants were only marshalling their passions. They pranced, shuffled, wove in and out, and presently began a muffled chant.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The weaving and gesticulation became feverish, and the caped figures crowded more closely around the dais. And now one leapt up on the dais and doffed her robe \emdash 
a middleaged witch of squat naked body with a great broad face. She had ecstatic glittering eyes, large features pumping in ceaseless idiotic motion. Mouth open, tongue protruding, stiff b
lack hair like a furze bush, falling from side to side over her face as she shook her head, she danced a libidinous sidelong dance in the light of the fires, looking slyly over the gathering. The chant of the cavorting figures below swelled to a vile chor
ous, and overhead dark shapes appeared, settling with an evil sureness.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The crowd began to slip from their robes, to reveal all manner of men and women, old and young\emdash orange-haired witches of the Cobalt Mountain; forest sorcerers of Ascolais; white-bearded 
wizards of the Forlorn Land, with babbling small succubi. And one clad in splendid silk was the Prince Datul Omaet of Cansapara, the city of fallen pylons across the Melantine Gulf. And another creature of scales and staring eyes came of the lizardmen in 
the barren hills of South Almery. And these two girls, never apart, were Saponids, the near-extinct race from the northern tundras. The slender dark-eyed ones}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid1596098  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
were necrophages from the Land of the Falling Wall. And the dreamy-eyed witch of the blue hair\emdash she dwelt on the Cape of Sad Remembrance and waited at night on the beach for that which came in from the sea.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 And as the squat witch with the black ruff and swinging breasts danced, the communicants became exalted, raised their arms, contorted their bodies, pantomimed all the evil and perversion they could set mind to.
}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Except one\emdash a quiet figure still wrapped in her robe, moving slowly through the saturnalia with a wonderful grace. She stepped up on the }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329\charrsid993056 dais}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  now, let the robe slip from her body, and Javanne stood revealed}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid13635587  in }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
a clinging white gown of mist-stuff, gathered at the waist, fresh and chaste as salt spray. Shining red hair fell over her shoulders like a stream, and curling strands hung over her breasts. Her great gray eyes demure, strawberry mouth a li
ttle parted, she gazed back and forth across the crowd. They called and crowed, and Javanne, with tantalizing deliberation, moved her body.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Javanne danced. She raised her arms, wove them down, twisting her body on slender white legs . . . Javanne danced, her face shining with the most reckless}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid1596098 
 passions. A dim shape dropped }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 from above, a beautiful half-creature, and he joined his body to Javanne's}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid13635587  in }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
a fantastic embrace. And the crowd below cried, leapt, rolled, tossed, joined together in a swift culmination of their previous antics.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 From the rocks T'sais watched, mind under an intensity no normal brain could understand. But\emdash in strange paradox\emdash t
he sight and sound fascinated her, reached below the warp, touched the dark chords latent to humanity. Etarr looked down at her, eyes glowing blue fire, and she stared back}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid13635587  in }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
a tumult of contradictory emotions. He winced and turned away; at last she looked back to the orgy below\emdash a drug-dream, a heaving of wild flesh in the darting firelight. A palpable aura was cast up, a weft}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid13635587  in }{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 space meshed of varying depravities. And the demons swooped like birds alighting and joined the delirium. Foul face after face T'sais saw, and each burnt her brain until she thought she must scream and die
\emdash visages of leering eye, bulbed cheek, lunatic body, black faces of spiked nose, expressions outraging thought, writhing, hopping, crawling,}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid1596098  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
the spew of the demon-lands. And one h
ad a nose like a three-fold white worm, a mouth that was a putrefying blotch, a mottled jowl and black malformed forehead; the whole a thing of retch and horror. To this Etarr directed T'sais' gaze. She saw and her muscles knotted. "There," said Etarr in 
a muffled voice, "there is a face twin to the one below this hood." And T'sais, staring at Etarr's black concealment, shrank back.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He chuckled weakly, bitterly . . . After a moment T'sais reached out and touched his arm. "Etarr."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He turned back to her. "Yes?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "My brain is flawed. I hate all I see. I cannot control my fears. Nevertheless that which underlies my brain\emdash  my blood, my body, my spirit\emdash that which is me loves you, the you underneath the mask."
}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Etarr studied the white face with a fierce intentness. "How can you love when you hate?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I hate you with the hate that I give to all the world; I love you with a feeling nothing else arouses."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Etarr turned away. "We make a strange pair .  .  ."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The turmoil, th
e whimpering joinings of flesh and half-flesh, quieted. A tall man in a conical black hat appeared on the dais. He flung back his head, shouted spells to the sky, wove runes in the air with his arms. And as he chanted, high above a gigantic wavering figur
e began to form, tall, taller than the highest trees, taller th}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid2562296 a}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 n the sky. It shaped slowly, green mists folding and unfolding, and presently the outline was clear\emdash 
the wavering shape of a woman, }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329\charrsid993056 beautiful}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 , grave, stately. The figure slowly became steady, gl
owing with an unearthly green light. She seemed to have golden hair, coiffed in the manner of a dim past, and her clothes were those of the ancients.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The magician who had called her forth screamed, exulted, shouted vast windy taunts that rang past the crags.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "She lives!" mu}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid2562296 rmured T'sais aghast. "She }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329 moves!}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  Who is she?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "It is Ethodea, goddess of mercy, from a time while the sun was still yellow," said Etarr.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The magician flung out his arm and a great bolt of purple fire soared up through the sky and spattered against the dim green form. The calm face twisted in anguish, and the watching demons, witches and}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid2562296  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 necrophages called out in glee. The magician on the }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329\charrsid993056 dais}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
 flung out his arm again, and bolt after bolt of purple fire darted up to smite the captive goddess. The whoops and cries of those by the fire were terrible to hear.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Then there came, the clear thin call of a bugle, cutting brilliantly through the exaultation. The revel jerked breathlessly alert.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The bugle, musical and bright, rang again, louder, a sound alien to the place. And now, breasting over the crags like spume, charged a company of green-clad men, moving with fanatic resolve.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Valdaran!" cried the magician on the dais, and the green figure of Ethodea wavered and disappeared.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Panic spread through 
the amphitheater. There were hoarse cries, a milling of lethargic bodies, a cloud of rising shapes as the demons sought flight. A few of the sorcerers stood boldly forth to chant spells of fire, dissolution, and paralysis against the assault, but there wa
s strong counter-magic, and the invaders leapt unscathed into the amphitheater, vaulting the dais. Their swords rose and fell, hacking, slashing, stabbing without mercy or restraint.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "The Green Legion of Valdaran the Just," whispered Etarr. "See, there he stands!" He pointed to a brooding black-clad figure on the crest of the ridge, watching all with a savage satisfaction.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Nor did the demons escape. As they flapped through the night, great birds bestrode by men in green swooped down from the darkness. And th
ese bore tubes which sprayed fans of galling light, and the demons who came within range gave terrible screams and toppled to earth, where they exploded in black dust.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 A few sorcerers had escaped to the crags, to dodge and hide among the shadows. T'sais and Etarr heard a scrabbling and panting below. Frantically clambering up the rocks was she whom Etarr had come seeking
\emdash  Javanne, her red hair streaming back from her clear young face. Etarr made a leap, caught her, clamped her with strong arms.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Come," he said to T'sais, and bearing down the struggling figure, he strode off through the shadows.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 At length as they passed down upon the moor, the tumult faded in the distance. Etarr set the woman upon}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid2562296  her feet, uncl}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
amped her mouth. She caught sight for the first time of }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid15692550 him}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
 who had seized her. The flame died from her face and through the night a slight smile could be seen. And she combed her long red hair with her fingers, arranging the locks over her shoulders, eyeing Etarr the while. T'sais wandered close, and J
avanne turned her a slow }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329\charrsid993056 appraising}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  glance.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She laughed. "So, Etarr, you have been unfaithful to me; you have found a new lover."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "She is no concern of yours," said Etarr.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Send her away," said Javanne, "and I will love you again. Remember how you first kissed me beneath the poplars, on the terrace of your villa?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Etarr gave a short sharp laugh. 'There is a single thing I require of you, and that is my face."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid15692550 And Javanne mocked hi}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 m. "Your face? What is amiss with the one you wear? You are better suited to it; and in any event, your former face is lost."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Lost? How so?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "He who wore it was blasted this night by the Green Legion, may Kraan preserve their living brains in acid!"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Etarr turned his blue eyes off toward the crags.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "So now is your countenance dust, black dust," murmured Javanne. Etarr, in blind rage, stepped forward and struck at the sweetly impudent face. But Javanne took a quick step back.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Care}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid15692550 ful, Etarr, lest I mischief you }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
with magic. You may go limping, hopping hence with a body to suit your face. And your beautiful dark-haired child shall be play for demons."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Etarr recovered himself and stood back, eyes smouldering.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I have magic as well, and even without I would smite you silent with my fist ere you worded the first frame of your spell."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Ha, that we shall see," cried Javanne, skipping away. "For I have a charm of wonderful brevity." As Etarr lunged at her she spoke a charm. Etarr stopped in mid-stride, his arms 
fell listless to his side, and he became a creature without volition, all his will drained by the leaching magic.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 But Javanne stood in precisely the same posture, and}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid15692550  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 her gray eyes stared dum}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid15692550 
bly forth. Only T'sais was free}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 \emdash for T'sais wore Pandelume's rune which reflected magic back against him who launched it.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She stood bewildered in the dark night, the two inanimate figures standing like sleep-walkers before her. She ran to Etarr, tugged at his arm. He looked at her with dull eyes.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Etarr! What is wrong with you?" And Etarr, because his will was }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329\charrsid993056 paralyzed}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
, forced to answer all questions and obey all orders, replied to her.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "The witch has spoken a spell which leaves me without volition. Therefore I cannot move or speak without command."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "What shall I do. How can I save you?" inquired the distressed girl. And, though Etarr was without volition, he retained his thought and passion. He could give her what information she asked, and nothing more.}
{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "You must order me to a course which will defeat the witch."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "But how will I know this course?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "You will ask and I will tell you."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Then would it not be better to order you to act as your brain directs?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Yes."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Then do so; act under all circumstances }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329 as }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329\charrsid993056 Etarr}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  would act."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Thus in the dark of night the spell of Javanne the witch was circumvented and nullified. Etarr was recovered and conducted himself according to his normal promptings. He approached the immobile Javanne.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Now do you fear me, witch?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Yes," said Javanne. "I fear you indeed."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Is in truth the face you stole from me black dust?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Your face is in the black dust of an exploded demon."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The blue eyes looked steadily at her through the slits of the hood.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "How can I recover it?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "It is mighty magic, a reaching into the past; and now your face
 is of the past. Magic stronger than mine is required, magic stronger than the wizards of Earth and the demon-worlds possess. I know of two only who are strong enough to make a mold of the past. The one is}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid7150036  }{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 named Pandelume, who lives}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid13635587  in }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 a many-colored land\emdash "}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Embelyon," murmured T'sais.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "\emdash 
but the spell to journey to this land has been forgotten. Then there is another, who is no wizard, who knows no magic. To get your face, you must seek it of one of these," and Javanne stopped, the question of Etarr answered.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Who is this latter one?" he asked.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I know not his name. Far in the past, far beyond thought, so the legend runs, a race of just people lived in a land east of the Maurenron Mountains, past
 the Land of the Falling Wall, by the shores of a great sea. They built a city of spires and low glass domes, and dwelt in great content. These people had no god, and presently they felt the need of one whom they might worship. So they built a lustrous te
m
ple of gold, glass and granite, wide as the Scaum River where it flows through the Valley of Graven Tombs, as long again, and higher than the trees of the north. And this race of honest men assembled in the temple, and all flung a mighty prayer, a worship
ful invocation, and, so legend has it, a god molded by the will of this people was brought into being, and he was of their attributes, a divinity of utter justice.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "The city at last crumbled, the temple became shards and splinters, the people vanished. But 
the god still remains, rooted forever to the place where his people worshipped him. And this god has power beyond magic. To each who faces him, the god wills and justice is done. And let the evil beware, for those who face the god find no whit of mercy. T
herefore few dare to bring their faces before this god."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "And to this god we go," said Etarr with grim pleasure. "The three of us, and the three of us shall face justice."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 They returned across the moors to Etarr's cabin, and he searched his books for means to transport them to the ancient site. In vain; he had no such magic at his command. He turned to Javanne.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Do you know of magic to take us to this ancient god?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Yes."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "What is this magic?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I will call three winged creatures from the Iron Mountains, and they will carry us."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Etarr gazed at Javanne's white face sharply.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "What reward do they demand?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "They kill those whom they transport."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Ah, witch," exclaimed Etarr, "even with your will drugged and your answer willy-nilly honest, you contrive to harm us." 
He stood towering over the beautiful evil of red hair and wet lips. "How may we get to the god unharmed and unmolested?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "You must put the winged creatures under a charge."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Summon the things," Etarr ordered, "and place them under the charge; and bind them with all the sorcery you know."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Javanne called the creatures; they settled flapping on great leather wings. She placed them under a pact of safety, and they whined and stamped with disappointment.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 And the three mounted, and the creatures took them swiftly through the night }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid7150036 air, which already smelled of m}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 orning.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 East, ever east. Dawn came, and the dim red sun ballooned slowly upward into the dark sky. The black Maurenron Range passed under; and the misty Land of the Falling Wall was left behind. To the sout
h were the deserts of Almery, and an ancient sea-bed filled with jungle; to the north, the wild forests.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 All during the day they flew, over dusty waste, dry cliffs, another great range of mountains, and as sunset came they slowly sloped downward over a green parkland.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ahead shone a glimmering sea. The winged things landed on the wide strand, and Javanne bound them to immobility for their return.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The beach, the woodland behind, both were bare of any trace of the wondrous city of the past. But a half-mile out to sea rose a few broken columns.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "The sea has come," Etarr muttered. "The city has foundered."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He waded out. The sea was calm and shallow. T'sais and Javanne followed. With the water around their waists, and dusk coming from the sky, they came through the broken columns of the ancient temple.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 A brooding presence pervaded the place, dispassionate, supernal, of illimitable will and power.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Etarr stood in the center of the old temple.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "God of the past!" he cried. "I know not how you were called, or I would in
voke you by name. We three come from a far land to the west to seek justice of you. If you hear and will administer us each our due, give me a sign!"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 A low sibilant voice from the air: "I hear and will give each his due." And each saw a vision of a golden six-armed figure with a round, calm face, sitting impassive in the nave of a monstrous temple.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I have been bereft of my face," said Etarr. "If you deem me fit, restore me the face I once wore."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The god of the vision extended its six arms.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I have searched your mind. Justice shall be meted. You may remove your hood." Slowly Etarr doffed his mask. He put his hand to his face. It was his own.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 T'sais looked numbly at him. "Etarr!" she gas}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid4589011 ped. "My brain is whole! I see\emdash }{\i\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid4589011\charrsid4589011 I}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  
}{\i\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid4589011 see the }{\i\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 world!"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "To each who comes, justice is done," said the sibilant voice.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 They heard a moan. They turned and looked at Javanne. Where was the lovely face, the strawberry mouth, the fair skin?}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Her nose was a three-fold white squirming}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid4589011  thing, her mouth a putrefying }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 blotch. She
 had dangling mottled jowls and a peaked black forehead. The only thing left of Javanne was the long red hair dangling over her shoulders.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "To each who comes, justice is done," said the voice, and the vision of the temple faded, and once more the cool water of the twilight sea lapped at their waists, and the broken columns leaned black on the sky.
}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 They returned slowly to the winged creatures.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Etarr turned to Javanne. "Go," he commanded. "Fly back to your lair. When the sun sets tomorrow, release yourself fr
om the spell. Never bother us henceforth, for I have magic which will warn me and blast you if you approach."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 And Javanne wordlessly bestrode her dark creature and winged off through the night.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Etarr turned to T'sais, and took her hand. He gazed}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid4589011  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 down at he
r tilted white face, into the eyes glowing with such feverish joy that they seemed afire. He bent and kissed her forehead; then, together, hand in hand, they went to their fretting winged creatures, and so flew back to Ascolais.}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid4589011 
\par }{\f36\fs24\insrsid4589011\charrsid993056 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\sb120\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10103342 \b\f1\fs26\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 4. }{\insrsid993056 LI}{
\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 ANE THE WAYFARER}{\insrsid993056 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sb120\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10103342 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid993056 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\scaps\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 through the }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
dim forest came Liane the Wayfarer, passing along the shadowed glades with a prancing light-footed gait. He whistled, he caroled, he was plainly in high spirits. Around his finger he twirled a bit of wrought bronze\emdash a circlet graved with angular
 crabbed characters, now stained black.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }\pard \ql \fi360\li0\ri0\sb120\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10103342 {\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
By excellent chance he had found it, banded around the root of an ancient yew. Hacking it free, he had seen the characters on the inner surface\emdash rude forceful symbols, doubtless the cast of a powerful antique rune . .
 . Best take it to a magician and have it tested for sorcery.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Liane made a wry mouth. There were objections to the course. Sometimes it seemed as if all living creatures conspired to exasperate him. Only this morning, the spice merchant\emdash what a tumult he ha
d made dying! How carelessly he had spewed blood on Liane's cock comb sandals! Still, thought Liane, every unpleasantness carried with it compensation. While digging the grave he had found the bronze ring.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 And Liane's spirits soared; he laughed in pure joy. He}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid15206357  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
bounded, he leapt. His green cape flapped behind him, the red feather in his cap winked and blinked . . . But still\emdash  Liane slowed his step\emdash he was no whit closer to the mystery of the magic, if magic the ring possessed.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Experiment, that was the word}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid15206357 !}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 H
e stopped where the ruby sunlight slanted down without hindrance from the high foliage, examined the ring, traced the glyphs with his fingernail. He peered through. A faint film, a flicker? He held it at arm's length. It was clearly a coronet. He whipped 
off his cap, set the band on his brow, rolled his great golden eyes, preened himself . . . Odd. It slipped down on his ears. It tipped across his eyes. Darkness. Frantically Liane clawed it off ... A bronze ring, a hand's-breadth in diameter. Queer.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He tried again. It slipped down over his head, his shoulders. His head was in the darkness of a strange separate space. Looking down, he saw the level of the outside light dropping as he dropped the ring.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Slowly down . . . Now it was around his ankles\emdash and in sudden panic, Liane snatched the ring up over his body, emerged blinking into the maroon light of the forest.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He saw a blue-white, green-white flicker against the foliage. It was a Twk-man, mounted on a dragon-fly, and light glinted from the dragon-fly's wings.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Liane called sharply, "Here, }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329 sir!}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  Here, sir!"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The Twk-man perched his mount on a twig. "Well, Liane, what do you wish?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Watch now, and remember what you see." Liane pulled the ring over his head, dropped it to his feet, lifted it back. He looked up to the Twk-man, who was chewing a leaf. "And what did you see?"}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I saw Liane vanish from mortal sight\emdash except for the red curled toes of his sandals. All else was as air."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Ha!" cried Liane. "Think of it! Have you ever seen the like?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The Twk-man asked carelessly, "Do you have salt? I would have salt."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Liane cut his exultations short, eyed the Twk-man closely.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "What news do you bring me?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid15206357 "Three  erbs  killed Florejin the Dream-builder, }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 and}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid15206357  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
burst all his bubbles. The air above the manse was colored for many minutes with the flitting fragments."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "A gram."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Lord Kandive the Golden has built a barge of carven mo-wood ten lengths high, and it floats on the River Scaum for the Regatta, full of treasure."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Two grams."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "A golden witch named Lith has come to live on Thamber Meadow. She is quiet and very beautiful."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Three grams."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Enough," said the Twk-man, and leaned forward to watch while Liane weig
hed out the salt in a tiny balance. He packed it in small panniers hanging on each side of the ribbed thorax, then twitched the insect into the air and flicked off through the forest vaults.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Once more Liane tried his bronze ring, and this time brought it e
ntirely past his feet, stepped out of it and brought the ring up into the darkness beside him. What a wonderful sanctuary! A hole whose opening could be hidden inside the hole itself! Down with the ring to his feet, step through, bring it up his slender f
rame and over his shoulders, out into the forest with a small bronze ring in his hand.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ho! and off to Thamber Meadow to see the beautiful golden witch.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Her hut was a simple affair of woven reeds \emdash  a low dome with two round windows and a low door. He saw Lith at the pond bare-legged among th}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16349347 e water shoots, catching frogs }
{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 for her supper. A white kirtle was gathered up tight around her thighs; stock-still she stood and the dark water rippled rings away from her slender knees.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She was more beautiful than Liane c
ould have imagined, as if one of Florejin's wasted bubbles had burst here on the water. Her skin was pale creamed stirred gold, her hair a denser, wetter gold. Her eyes were like Liane's own, great golden orbs, and hers were wide apart, tilted slightly.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Liane strode forward and planted himself on the bank. She looked up startled, her ripe mouth half-open.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Behold, golden witch, here is Liane. He has come to welcome you to Thamber; and he offers you his friendship, his love ..."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Lith bent, scooped a handful of slime from the bank and flung it into his face.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Shouting the most violent curses, Liane wiped his eyes free, but the door to the hut had slammed shut.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Liane strode to the door and pounded it with his fist.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Open and show your witch's face, or I burn the hut!"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The door opened, and the girl looked forth, smiling. "What now?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Liane entered the hut and lunged for the girl, but twenty thin shafts darted out, twenty points pricking his chest. He halted, eyebrows raised, mouth twitching.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Down, steel," said Lith. The blades snapped from view. "So easily could I seek your vitality," said Lith, "had I willed."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Liane frowned and rubbed his chin as if pondering. "You understand," he said earnestly, "what a witless thing you do. Liane is feared by those who fear fear, loved by those who love love. And you\emdash 
" his eyes swam the golden glory of her body\emdash "you are ripe as a sweet fruit, you are eager, you glisten and tremble with love. You please Liane, and he will spend much warmness on you."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "No, no," said Lith, with a slow smile. "You are too hasty."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Liane looked at her}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid13635587  in }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 surprise. "Indeed?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I am Lith," said she. "I am what you say I am. I ferment, I burn, I seethe. Yet I may have no lover but him who has served me. He must be brave, swift, cunning."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I am he," said Liane. He chewed at his lip. "It is not usually thus. I detest this indecision." He took a step forward. "Come, let us\emdash "}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She backed away. "No, no. You forget. How have you served me, how have you ga}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid273175 in}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 ed the right to my love?"}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Absurdi}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid273175 ty!" stormed Liane. "Look at me!}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  Note my perfect grace, the beauty of my form and feature, my great eyes, as golden as your o
wn, my manifest will and power ... It is you who should serve me. That is how I will have it." He sank upon a low divan. "Woman, give me wine."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She shook her head. "In my small domed hut I cannot be forced. Perhaps outside on Thamber Meadow\emdash but in here, am
ong my blue and red tassels, with twenty blades of steel at my call, you must obey me. ... So choose. Either arise and go, never to return, or else agree to serve}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid273175  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
me on one small mission, and then have me and all my ardor."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Liane sat straight and stiff. An odd creature, the golden witch. But, indeed, she was worth some exertion, and he would make her pay for her impudence.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Very well, then," he said blandly. "I will serve you. What do you wish? Jewels? I can suffocate you in pearls, blind you with diamonds.
 I have two emeralds the size of your fist, and they are green oceans, where the gaze is trapped and wanders forever among vertical green prisms ..."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "No, no jewels\emdash "}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "An enemy, perhaps. Ah, so simple. Liane will kill you ten men. Two steps forward, thrust\emdash }{\i\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 thus!" }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
He lunged. "And souls go thrilling up like bubbles in a beaker of mead."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "No. I want no killing."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He sat back, frowning. "What, then?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
She stepped to the back of the room and pulled at a drape. It swung aside, displaying a golden tapestry. The scene was a valley bounded by two steep mountains, a broad valley where a placid river ran, past a quiet village and so into a grove of trees. Gol
den was the river, golden the mountains, golden the trees\emdash golds so various, so rich, so subtle that the effect was like a many-colored landscape. But the tapestry had been rudely hacked in half.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Liane was entranced. "Exquisite, exquisite ..."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Lith said, "It is the Magic Valley of Ariventa so depicted. The other half has been stolen from me, and its recovery is the service I wish of you."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Where is the other half?" demanded Liane. "Who is the dastard?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Now she watched him closely. "Have you ever heard of Chun? Chun the Unavoidable?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Liane considered. "No."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "He stole the half to my tapestry, and hung it in a marble hall, and this hall is in the ruins to the north of Kaiin."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Ha!" muttered Liane.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "The hall is by the Place of Whispers, and is marked by a leaning column with a black medallion of a phoenix and a two-headed lizard."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I go," said Liane. He rose. "One day to Kaiin, one day to steal, one day to return. Three days."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Lith followed him to the door. "Beware of Chun the Unavoidable," she whispered.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 And Liane strode away whistling, the red feather bobbing in his green cap. Lith watched him, then turned and slowly approached t}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid7233143 he golden tapestry. "Golden Ari}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 venta," she whispered, "my heart cries and hurts with longing for you ..."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid7233143 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The Derna is a swifter, thinne
r river than the Scaum, its bosomy sister to the south. And where the Scaum wallows through a broad dale, purple with horse-blossom, pocked white and gray with crumbling castles, the Derna has sheered a steep canyon, overhung by forested bluffs.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 An ancient
 flint road long ago followed the course of the Derna, but now the exaggeration of the meandering has cut into the pavement, so that Liane, treading the road to Kaiin, was occasionally forced to leave the road and make a detour through banks of thorn and 
the tube-grass which whistled in the breeze.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
The red sun, drifting across the universe like an old man creeping to his death-bed, hung low to the horizon when Liane breasted Porphiron Scar, looked across white-walled Kaiin and the blue bay of Sanreale beyond.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
Directly below was the market-place, a medley of stalls selling fruits, slabs of pale meat, molluscs from the slime banks, dull flagons of wine. And the quiet people of Kaiin moved among the stalls, buying their sustenance, carrying it loosely to their 
stone chambers.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Beyond the market-place rose a bank of ruined columns, like broken teeth\emdash legs to the arena built two hundred feet from the ground by Mad King Shin; beyond,}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid13635587  in }{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 a grove of bay trees, the glossy dome of the palace was visible, where Kandive the Golden ruled Kaiin and as much of Ascolais as one could see from a vantage on Porphiron Scar.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The Derna, no longer a flow of clear water, poured through a network of dank canals and subterranean tubes, and finally seeped past rotting wharves into the Bay of Sanreale.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 A bed for the night, thought Liane; then to his business in the morning.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He leapt down the zig-zag steps\emdash back, forth, back, forth\emdash and came out into the market-place. And now he put on a grave demeanor. Liane the Wayfarer was not unknown in Ka
iin, and many were ill-minded enough to work him harm.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He moved sedately in the shade of the Pannone Wall, turned through a narrow cobbled street, bordered by old wooden houses glowing the rich brown of old stump-water in the rays of the setting sun, and s
o came to a small square and the high stone face of the Magician's Inn.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The host, a small fat man, sad of eye, with a small fat nose the identical shape of his body, was scraping ashes from the hearth. He straightened his back and hurried behind the counter of his little alcove.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Liane said, "A chamber, well-aired, and a supper of mushrooms, wine and oysters."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The innkeeper bowed humbly.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Indeed, sir\emdash and how will you pay?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Liane flung down a leather sack, taken this very morning. The innkeeper raised his eyebrows in pleasure at the fragrance.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "The ground buds of the spase-bush, brought from a far land," said Liane.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Excellent, excellent . . . Your chamber, sir, and your supper at once."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 As Liane ate, several other guests of the house appeared and sat before the fire with wine, and the talk grew large, and dwelt on wizards of the past and the great days of magic.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Great Phandaal knew a lore now forgot," said one old man with hair dyed oran
ge. "He tied white and black strings to the legs of sparrows and sent them veering to his direction. And where they wove their magic woof, great trees appeared, laden with flowers, fruits, nuts, or bulbs of rare liqueurs. It is said that thus he wove Grea
t Da Forest on the shores of Sanra Water."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
"Ha," said a dour man in a garment of dark blue, brown and black, "this I can do." He brought forth a bit of string, flicked it, whirled it, spoke a quiet word, and the vitality of the pattern fused the string into
 a tongue of red and yellow fire, which danced, curled, darted back and}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid616833  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 forth along the table till the dour man killed it with a gesture.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "And this I can do," said a hooded figure in a black cape sprinkled with silver circles. He brought forth a small tray
, laid it on the table and sprinkled therein a pinch of ashes from the hearth. He brought forth a whistle and blew a clear tone, and up from the tray came glittering motes, flashing the prismatic colors red, blue, green, yellow. They floated up a foot and
 bust in coruscations of brilliant colors, each a beautiful star-shaped pattern, and each burst sounded a tiny repetition of the original tone \emdash 
the clearest, purest sound in the world. The motes became fewer, the magician blew a different tone, and again the motes floated up to burst in glorious ornamental spangles. Another time\emdash 
another swarm of motes. At last the magician replaced his whistle, wiped off the tray, tucked it inside his cloak and lapsed back to silence.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Now the other wizards surged forward, an
d soon the air above the table swarmed with visions, quivered with spells. One showed the group nine new colors of ineffable charm and radiance; another caused a mouth to form on the landlord's forehead and revile the crowd, much to the landlord's discomf
i
ture, since it was his own voice. Another displayed a green glass bottle from which the face of a demon peered and grimaced; another a ball of pure crystal which rolled back and forward to the command of the sorcerer who owned it, and who claimed it to be
 an earring of the fabled master Sankaferrin.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Liane had attentively watched all, crowing in delight at the bottled imp, and trying to cozen the obedient crystal from its owner, without success.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 And Liane became pettish, complaining that the world was full o
f rock-hearted men, but the sorcerer with the crystal earring remained indifferent, and even when Liane spread out twelve packets of rare spice he refused to part with his toy.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Liane pleaded, "I wish only to please the witch Lith."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Please her with the spice, then."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Liane said ingenuously, "Indeed, she has but one wish, a bit of tapestry which I must steal from Chun the Unavoidable."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 And}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid616833  he looked}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  from face to suddenly silent face.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "What causes such immediate sobriety? Ho, Landlord, more wine!"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The sorcerer with the earring said, "If the floor swam ankle-deep with wine\emdash the rich red wine of Tanvilkat \emdash the leaden print of that name would still ride the air."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Ha," laughed Liane, "let only a taste of that wine pass your lips, and the fumes would erase all memory."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "See his eyes," came a whisper. "Great and golden."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "And quick to see," spoke Liane. "And these legs\emdash  quick to run, fleet as starlight on the waves. And this arm\emdash quick to stab with steel. And my magic\emdash 
which will set me to a refuge that is out of all cognizance." He gulped wine; from a beaker. "Now behold. This is magic from antique days." He set the bronze band over his head, stepped through, brought i
t up inside the darkness. When he .deemed that sufficient time had elapsed, he stepped through once more.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The fire glowed, the landlord stood in his alcove, Liane's wine was at hand. But of the assembled magicians, there was no trace.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Liane looked about in puzzlement. "And where are my wizardly friends?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The landlord turned his head: "They took to their chambers; the name you spoke weighed on their souls."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 And Liane drank his wine in frowning silence.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Next morning he left the inn and picked a roundabout way to the Old Town\emdash 
a gray wilderness of tumbled pillars, weathered blocks of sandstone, slumped pediments with crumbled inscriptions, flagged terraces overgrown with rusty moss. Lizards, snakes, insects crawled the ruins; no other life did he see.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Threading a way through the rubble, he almost stumbled on a corpse\emdash the body of a youth, one who stared at the sky with empty eye-sockets.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Liane felt a presence. He leapt back, rapier half-bared. A stooped old man stood watching him. He spoke in a feeble, quavering voice: "And what will you have in the Old Town?"}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Liane replaced his rapier. "I seek the Place of Whispers. Perhaps you will direct me."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The old man made a croaking sound at the back of his throat. "Another? Another? When will it cease? ..." He}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid616833  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 motioned to t
he corpse. "This one came yesterday seeking the Place of Whispers. He would steal from Chun the Unavoidable. See him now." He turned away. "Come with me." He disappeared over a tumble of rock.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Liane followed. The old man stood by another corpse with eye-so
ckets bereft and bloody. "This one came four days ago, and he met Chun the Unavoidable . . . And over there behind the arch is still, a great warrior in cloison armor. And there\emdash and there\emdash " he pointed, pointed. "And there\emdash and there
\emdash like crushed flies."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He turned his watery blue gaze back to Liane. "Return, young man, return\emdash lest your body lie here in its green cloak to rot on the flagstones."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Liane drew his rapier and flourished it. "I am Liane the Wayfarer; let them who offend me have fear. And where is the Place of Whispers?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "If you must know," said the old man, "it is beyond that broken obelisk. But you go to your peril."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I am Liane the Wayfarer. Peril goes with me."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The old man stood like a piece of weathered statuary as Liane strode off.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 And Liane ask
ed himself, suppose this old man were an agent of Chun, and at this minute were on his way to warn him? . . . Best to take all precautions. He leapt up on a high entablature and ran crouching back to where he had left the ancient.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Here he came, muttering to himself, leaning on his staff. Liane dropped a block of granite as large as his head. A thud, a croak, a gasp\emdash and Liane went his way.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He strode past the broken obelisk, into a wide court \emdash the Place of Whispers. Directly opposite was a long wide hall, mar
ked by a leaning column with a big black medallion, the sign of a phoenix and a two-headed lizard.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Liane merged himself with the shadow of a wall, and stood watching like a wolf, alert for any flicker of motion.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
All was quiet. The sunlight invested the ruins with dreary splendor. To all sides, as far as the eye could reach, was broken stone, a wasteland leached by a thousand rains, until now the sense of man had departed and the stone was one with the natural ear
th.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid3692535 The sun moved across the dark-blue }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 sky.   Liane}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid3692535  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
presently stole from his vantage-point  and  circled  the hall. No sight nor sign did he see.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He approached the building from the rear and pressed his ear to the stone. It was dead, without vibration. Around the side\emdash 
watching up, down, to all sides; a breach in the wall. Liane peered inside. At the back hung half a golden tapestry. Otherwise the hall was empty.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Liane looked up, down, this side, that. There was nothing in sight. He continued around the hall.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He came to another broken place. He looked within. To the rear hung the golden tapestry. Nothing else, to right or left, no sight or sound.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Liane continued to the front of the hall and sought into the eaves; dead as dust.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He had a clear view of the room. Bare, barren, except for the bit of golden tapestry.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Liane entered, striding with long soft steps. He halted in the middle of the floor. Light came to him from all sides except the rear wall. There were a dozen openings fro
m which to flee and no sound except the dull thudding of his heart}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He took two steps forward. The tapestry was almost at his fingertips.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He stepped forward and swiftly jerked the tapestry down from the wall.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 And behind was Chun the Unavoidable.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Liane screamed. He turned on paralyzed legs and they were leaden, like legs in a dream which refused to run.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Chun dropped out of the wall and advanced. Over his shiny black back he wore a robe of eyeballs threaded on silk.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Liane was running, fleetly now. He sprang, h
e soared. The tips of his toes scarcely touched the ground. Out the hall, across the square, into the wilderness of broken statues and fallen columns. And behind came Chun, running like a dog.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Liane sped along the crest of a wall and sprang a great gap to a shattered fountain. Behind came Chun.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Liane darted up a narrow alley, climbed over a pile of refuse, over a roof, down into a court. Behind came Chun.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Liane sped down a wide avenue lined with a few stunted old cypress trees, and he heard Chun close at hi
s heels. He turned into an archway, pulled his bronze ring over his head, down to his feet. He stepped through, brought the ring up inside the darkness. Sanctuary. He was alone in a dark magic space, vanished from earthly gaze and knowledge. Brooding sile
nce, dead space ...}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He felt a stir behind him, a breath of air. At his elbow a voice said, "I am Chun the Unavoidable."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid3692535 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Lith sat on her couch near the candles, weaving a cap from frogskins. The door to her hut was barred, the windows shuttered. Outside, Thamber Meadow dwelled in darkness.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 At scrape at her door, a creak as the lock was tested. Lith became rigid and stared at the door.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 A voice said, "Tonight, O Lith, tonight it is two long bright threads for you. Two because the eyes were so great, so large, so golden ...}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Lith sat quiet. She waited an hour; then, creeping to the door, she listened. The sense of presence was absent. A frog croaked nearby.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She eased the door ajar, found the threads and closed the door. She ran to her golden tapestry and fitted the threads into the ravelled warp.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
And she stared at the golden valley, sick with longing for Ariventa, and tears blurred out the peaceful river, the quiet golden forest. "The cloth slowly grows wider . . . One day it will be done, and I will come home...."}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid3692535 
\par }{\f36\fs24\insrsid3692535\charrsid993056 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\sb120\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10103342 \b\f1\fs26\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 5. ULAN DHOR}{\insrsid993056 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sb120\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10103342 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid993056 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\scaps\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 prince kandive }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
the Golden spoke earnestly to his nephew Ulan Dhor. "It must be understood that the expansion of craft and the new lore will be shared between us."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }\pard \ql \fi360\li0\ri0\sb120\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10103342 {\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
Ulan Dhor, a slender young man, pale of skin, with the blackest of hair, eyes, and eyebrows, smiled ruefully. "But it is I who journey the forgotten water, I who must beat down the sea-demons with my oar."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Kandive leaned back into his cushions and tapped his nose with a ferrule of carved jade.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
"And it is I who make the venture possible. Further, I am already an accomplished wizard; .the increment of lore will merely enhance my craft. You, not even a novice, will gain such knowledge as to rank you among the 
magicians of Ascolais. This is a far cry from your present ineffectual status. Seen in this light, my gain is small, yours is great."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor grimaced. "True enough, though I dispute the word 'ineffectual'. I know Phandaal's Critique of the Chill, I am reckoned a master of the sword, ranked among the Eight Delaphasians as a ..."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Pah!" sneered Kandive. "The vapid mannerisms of pale people, using up their lives. Mincing murder, extravagant debauchery, while Earth passes its last hours, and none of you have ventured a mile from Kaiin."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor held his ton}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid13717951 gue, reflecting that Prince Kan}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 dive the Golden was not known to scorn the pleasures of wine, couch, or tab}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid13717951 le; and that his farthest known}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  sally from the domed palace had taken him to his carven barge on the River Scaum.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Kandive, appeased by Ulan Dhor's silence, brought forward an ivory box. }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid13717951 "Thus and so. If we are agreed,}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
 I will invest you with knowledge."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor nodded. "We are agreed."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Kandive said, "The mission will take you to the lost city Ampridatvir." He watched Ulan Dhor's face from sidelong eyes; Ulan Dhor maintained an even expression.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I have never seen it," continued Kandive. "Porrina the Ninth lists it as the last of the Olek'hnit cities, situated on an island in the North Melantine." He ope
ned the box. "This tale I found in an ancient bundle of scrolls\emdash 
the testament of a poet who fled Ampridatvir after the death of Rogol Domedonfors, their last great leader, a magician of great force, mentioned forty-three times in the Cyclopedia ..."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Kandive brought forth a crackling scroll, and, whipping it open, read:}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 " 'Ampridatvir now is lost. My people have forsaken the doctrine of strength and discipline and concern themselves only with superstition and theology. Unending is the bicker: Is Pansiu the e
xcellent principle and Cazdal depraved, or is Cazdal the virtuous god, and Pansiu the essential evil?}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 " "These questions are debated with fire and steel, and the memory sickens me; now I leave Ampridatvir to the decline which must surely come, and remove t
o the kind valley of Mel-Palusas, where I will end this firefly life of mine.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 " 'I have known the Ampridatvir of old; I have seen the towers glowing with marvellous light, thrusting beams through the night to challenge the sun itself. Then Ampridatvir was beautiful\emdash 
ah my heart pains when I think of the olden city. Semir vines cascaded from}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid13717951  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
a thousand hanging gardens, water ran blue as vaul-stone in the three canals. Metal cars rolled the streets, metal hulls swarmed the air as thick as bees around a hive\emdash fo
r marvel of marvels, we had devised wefts of spitting fire to spurn the weighty power of Earth . . . But even in my life I saw the leaching of spirit. A surfeit of honey cloys the tongue; a surfeit of wine addles the brain; so a surfeit of ease guts a man
 of strength. Light, warmth, food, water, were free to all men, and gained by a minimum of effort. So the people of Ampridatvir, released from toil, gave increasing attention to faddishness, perversity, and the occult.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 " 'To the furthest reach of my memory, Rogol}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid4921723  Dome}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
donfors ruled the city. He knew lore of all ages, secrets of fire and light, gravity and counter-gravity, the knowledge of superphysic numeration, metathasm, corolopsis. In spite of his profundity, he was impractical in his rule, and blind to th
e softening of Ampridatvirian spirit. Such weakness and lethargy as he saw he ascribed to a lack of education, and in his last years he evolved a tremendous machine to release men from all labor, and thus permit full leisure for meditation and ascetic dis
cipline.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 " 'While Rogol Domedonfors completed his great work, the city dissolved into turbulence\emdash the result of a freak religious hysteria.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 " 'The rival sects of Pansiu and Cazdal had long existed, but few other than the priests heeded the dispute. Suddenly the cults became fashionable; the population flocked to wo}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid4921723 
rship one or the other of the d}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 e}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid4921723 i}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
ties. The priests, long-jealous rivals, were delighted with their new power, and exhorted the converts to a crusading zeal. Friction arose, emotion waxed, there was 
rioting and violence. And on one evil day a stone struck Rogol Domedonfors, toppled him from a balcony.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 " 'Crippled and wasting but refusing to die, Rogol Domedonfors completed his underground mechanism, installed vestibules throughout the city, and then t
ook to his death-bed. He issued one directive to his new machine, and when Ampridatvir awoke the next morning, the people found their city without power or light, the food factories quiet, the canals diverted.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 " 'In terror they rushed to Rogol Domedonfors, who said: "I have long been blind to your decadence and}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid4921723  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
eccentricities; now I despise you; you have been the death of me."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "'"But the city dies! The race perishes!" they cried.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "' "You must save yourselves," Rogol Domedonfors told them. "You have ignored 
the ancient wisdom, you have been too indolent to learn, you have sought easy complacence from religion, rather than facing manfully to the world. I have resolved to impose a bitter experience upon you, which I hope will be salutary."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 " 'He called the rival priests of Pansiu and Cazdal, and handed to each a tablet of transparent metal.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 " These tablets singly are useless; laid together a message may be read. He who reads the message will have the key to the ancient knowledge, and will wi
eld the power I had planned for my own use. Now go, and I will die."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 " 'The priests, glaring at each other, departed, called their followers, and so began a great war.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 " 'The body of Rogol Domedonfors was never found, and some say his skeleton still lies in the passages below the city. The tablets are housed in the rival tem}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid10248448 
ples. By night there is murder,}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  by day there is starvation}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid13635587  in }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
the streets. Many have fled to the mainland, and now I follow, leaving Ampridatvir, the last home of the race. I will build a wooden hut on the slope of Mount Liu and live out my days in the valley of Mel-Palusas.'"}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Kandive twisted the scroll and replaced it in the box. "Your task," he told Ulan Dhor, "is to journey to Ampridatvir and recover the magic of Rogol Domedonfors."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor said thoughtfully, "It was a long time ago ... Thousands of years ..."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Correct," said Kandive. "However, none of 
the histories of indices make further mention of Rogol Domedonfors, and herefore I believe that the wisdom of Rogol Domedonfors still remains to be found in ancient Ampridatvir."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Three weeks Ulan Dhor sailed the nerveless ocean. The sun rose bright as bloo
d from the horizon and belled across the sky, and the water was calm, save for the ruffle of the breeze and the twin widening marks of Ulan Dhor's wake.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Then came the setting, the last sad glance across the}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid9852179  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 world; then purple twilight and the night. The ol
d stars spanned the sky and the wake behind Ulan Dhor shone ghastly white. Then did he watch for heavings of the surface, for he felt greatly alone on the dark face of the ocean.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Three weeks Ulan Dhor sailed the Melantine Gulf, to the north and west, and one morning he saw to the right the dark shadow of coastland and to the left the loom of an island, almost lost in the haze.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Close off his bow goated an ungainly barg}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid9852179 e,}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  moving sluggishly under a square sail of plaited reeds.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor laid a course so as to draw alongside, and saw on the barge two men in coarse green smocks trolling for fish. They had oat-yellow hair and blue eyes, and they wore expressions of stupefaction.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor dropped his sail and laid hold of the barge. The fishermen neither moved nor spoke.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor said, "You seem unfamiliar with the sight of man."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The older man broke into a nervous chant which Ulan Dhor understood to be an invocation against demons and frits.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor laughed. "Why do you inveigh against me? I am a man like yourself."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
The younger man said in a broad dialect: "We reason you to be a demon. First, there are none of our race with night-black hair and eyes. Second, the Word of Pansiu denies the existence of all other men. Therefore you can be no man, and must be a demon."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The older man said under his hand, "Hold your tongue; speak no word. He will curse the tones of your voice . . ."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "You are wrong, I assure you," replied Ulan Dhor politely. "Have either of you ever seen a demon?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "None but the Gauns."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Do I resemble the Gauns?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Not at all," admitted the older man. His companion indicated Ulan Dhor's dull scarlet coat and green trousers. "He is evidently a Raider; note the color of his garb."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor said, "No, I am neither Raider nor d}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid9852179 emon. I am merely a man ..}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 ."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "No men exist except the Greens\emdash so says Pansiu."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor threw back his head and laughed. "Earth is}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid9852179  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
but wilderness and ruins, true enough, but many men yet walk abroad . . . Tell me, is the city Ampridatvir to be found on that island ahead?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The younger man nodded.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "And you live there?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Again the young man assented.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor said uncomfortably, "I understood that Ampridatvir was a deserted ruin\emdash forlorn, desolate."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The young man asked with a shrewd expression, "And what do you seek at Ampridatvir?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
Ulan Dhor thought, I will mention the tablets and observe their reaction. It is well to learn if these tablets are known, and if so, how they are regarded. He said, "I have sailed three weeks to find Ampridatvir and investigate some legendary tablets."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid9852179 "Ah," said the older man. \'93}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The tablets! He is a Raider, then. I see it clearly. Note his green trousers. A Raider for the Greens ..."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor, expecting hostility as a result of this identification, was surprised to find a more pleasant expression on the faces of the men, as if now they had resolved a troublesome parodox. Very well, he tho}
{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid9852179 ught, if that is how they will H}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 ave it, let it be.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The younger man wished total clarity. "Is that your claim then, dark man? Do you wear red as a Raider for the Greens?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor said cautiously, "My plans are not settled."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "But you wear red! That is the color the Raiders wear!"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Here is a peculiarly disrupted way of thinking, reflected Ulan Dhor. It is almost as if a rock blocked the stream of their thought and diverted t
he current in a splash and a spray. He said, "Where I come from, a man wears such colors as he chooses."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The older man said eagerly, "But you wear Green, so evidently you have chosen to raid for the Greens."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor shrugged, sensing the block across a mental channel. "If you wish ... What others are there?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "None, no other," replied the older man. "We are the Greens of Ampridatvir."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Then\emdash whom does a Raider raid?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The younger man moved uneasily and pulled in his line.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "He raids a ruined temple to the demon Cazdal, for the lost tablet of Rogol Domedonfors."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "In that case," said Ulan Dhor, "I might become a Raider."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "For the Greens," said the old man, peering at him side-wise.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Enough, enough," said the other. "The sun is past the zenith. We had best be homeward."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Aye, aye," said the older man, with sudden energy. "The sun drops."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The younger man looked at Ulan Dhor. "If you propose to raid, you had best come with us."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor passed a line to the barge, adding his fabric sail to the plaited reeds, and they turned their bows toward shore.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 It was very beautiful, crossing the sunny afternoon swells toward the forested island, and as they rounded the eastern cape, Ampridatvir came into view.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 A line of low buildings faced the harbor, and beyond rose such towers as Ulan Dhor had never imagined to exist\emdash 
metal spires soaring past the central height of the island to glisten in the light of the setting sun. Such cities were legends of the past, dreams of the time when the Earth was young.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor stared speculativ
ely at the barge, at the coarse green cloaks of the fishermen. Were they peasants? Would he become a butt for ridicule, thus arriving at the glistening city? He turned uncomfortably back to the island, chewing his lips. According to Kandive, Ampridatvir w
ould be toppled columns and rubble, like the Old Town above Kaiin ...}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The sun dropped against the water, and now Ulan Dhor, with a sudden shock, noticed the crumble at the base of the towers; here was his expectation, as much desolation as Kandive had predi
cted. Strangely the fact gave Ampridatvir an added majesty, the dignity of a lost monument.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The wind had slack}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid15009510 ened, the progress of boat and }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
barge was slow indeed. The fishermen betrayed anxiety, muttering to each other, adjusting their sail to draw its be
st, tightening their stays. But before they drifted inside the breakwater, purple twilight had dropped across the city, and the towers became tremendous black monoliths.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 In near-darkness they tied to a landing of logs, among other barges, some painted green, others gray.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor jumped up to t}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid15009510 he dock. "A moment," said the yo}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
unger fisherman, eyeing Ulan Dhor's red coat. "It would be unwise to dress thus, even at night." He rummaged through a box and brought}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid15009510  forth a green cape, ragged and }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
smelling of fish. "Wear this, and hold the hood over your black hair ..."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor obeyed with a private grimace of distaste. He asked, "Where may I sup and bed tonight? Are there inns or hostels in Ampridatvir?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The younger man said without enthusiasm, "You may pass the night at my hall."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The fishermen slung the day's catch over their shoulders, climbed to the dock, and peered anxiously through the rubble.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "You are ill at ease," observed Ulan Dhor.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Aye," said the younger man. "At night the Gauns roam the streets."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "What are the Gauns?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Demons."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 'There are many varieties of demons," Ulan Dhor said lightly. "What be these?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "They are like horrible men. They have great long arms that clutch and rend ..."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Ho!" muttered Ulan Dhor, feeling for his sword hilt. "Why do you permit them abroad?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "We cannot harm them. They are fierce and strong\emdash  but fortunately not too agile. With luck and watchfulness .. ."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor now searched the rubble with an expression as careful as the fishermen's. These people were familiar with the dangers of the place; he would obey their counsel until he knew better.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 They threaded the first tumble of ruins, entered a canyon shadowed from the afterglow by the pinnacles to either side, brimming with gloom.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
Deadness! thought Ulan Dhor. The place was under the pall of dusty death. Where were the active millions of long ago Ampridatvir? Dead dust, their moisture mingled in the ocean, beside that of every other man and woman who had lived on Earth.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329 D}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329\charrsid993056 h}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329 o}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329\charrsid993056 r}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  and the two fishermen moved down the}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid15009510  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
avenue, pygmy figures wandering a dream-city, and Ulan Dhor looked coldly from side to side . . . Prince Kandive the Golden had spoken truth. Ampridatvir was the very definition of antiquity. The windo
ws gaped black, concrete had cracked, balconies hung crazily, terraces were mounded with dust. Debris filled the streets\emdash blocks of stone from fallen columns, crushed and battered metal.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 But Ampridatvir still moved with a weird unending life where the builders had used ageless substance, eternal energies. Strips of a dark glistening material flowed like water at each side of the street\emdash 
slowly at the edges, rapidly at the center.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The fishermen matter-of-factly stepped on this strip, and Ulan Dhor gingerly fol
lowed them to the swift center. "I see roads flowing like rivers in Ampridatvir," he said. "You call me demon; truly I think the glove is on the other hand."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "It is no magic," said the younger man shortly. "It is the way of Ampridatvir."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 At regular intervals along the street stood stone vestibules about ten feet high that had the appearance of sheltering ramps leading below the street.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "What lies below?" inquired Ulan Dhor.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The fishermen shrugged. "The doors are tight. No man has ever gone through. Legend says it was the last work of Rogol Domedonfors."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor withheld further questions, observing a growing nervousness in the fishermen. Infected by their apprehension he kept his hand at his sword.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "None live in this part of Ampridatvir," said the old fisherman in a hoarse whisper. "It is ancient beyond imagining, ridden with ghosts."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The streets broke into a central square, the towers fell away before them. The sliding strip coasted to a stop, like water flowing into a pool. Here glowed the first artificial light Ulan Dhor had seen\emdash 
a bright globe hung on a looping metal stanchion.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 In this light Ulan Dhor saw a youth in a gray cloak hurrying across the square ... A movement among the ruins; the fishermen gasped, crouched. A corpse-pale creature sprang out in
to the light. Its arms hung knotted and long; dirty fur covered its legs. Great eyes glared from a peaked, fungus-white skull; two fangs hung over}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid15009510  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
the undershot mouth. It leapt upon the wretch in the gray robe and tucked him under his arm; then, turning, gave Ulan Dhor and the fishermen a look of baleful triumph. And now they saw that the victim was a woman ...}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ul}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid15009510 an Dhor drew his sword. "No, no!}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 " whispered the older man. "The Gaun will go its way!"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "But the woman it has taken! We can save her!"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "The Gaun has seized no one." The old man clutched at his shoulder.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Are you blind, man?" cried Ulan Dhor.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "There are none in Ampridatvir but the Greens," said the younger man. "Stay by us."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor hesitated. Was the woman in gray, then, a ghost? If so, why did not the fishermen say as much? . . .}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The Gaun, with insolent leisure, stalked toward a long edifice of dark tumbled arches.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329 Dho}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329\charrsid993056 r}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  ran across the white square of ancient Ampridatvir.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The monster twisted to face him and flung out a great knotted arm, as long as a man was tall, ending in a white-furred clump of fingers. Ulan Dhor hewed a tremendous blow }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid15009510 
with his sword; the Gaun's fore}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 arm dangled by a shred of flesh and bone-splinter.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
Jumping back to avoid the spray of blood, Ulan Dhor ducked the grasp of the other arm as it swung past. He hacked again, another great blow, and the second forearm dangled loosely. He sprang close, plunged his blade at the creature's eye and struck up int
o the beast's skull-case.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The creature died in a series of wild capers, maniac throes that took it dancing around the square.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor, panting, fighting nausea, looked down to the wide-eyed woman. She was rising weakly to her feet. He reached an arm to st
eady her, noticing that she was slim and young, with blonde hair hanging loosely to the level of her jaw. She had a pleasant, pretty face, thought Ulan Dhor\emdash candid, clear-eyed, innocent.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She appeared not to notice him, but stood half-turned away, wrapping herself in her gray cloak. Ulan Dhor began to fear that the shock had affected her mind. H}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid15009510 
e moved forward and peered into}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  her face.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Are you well? Did the beast harm you?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Surprise came over her face, almost as if Ulan Dhor}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid15009510  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 were another Gaun. Her gaze brus
hed his green cloak, quickly moved back to his face, his black hair. "Who ... are you?" she whispered. "A stranger," said Ulan Dhor, "and much puzzled by the ways of Ampridatvir." He looked around for the fishermen; they were nowhere in sight.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "A stranger?" the girl asked. "But Cazdal's Tract tells us that the Gauns have destroyed all men but the Grays of Ampridatvir."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Cazdal is as incorrect as Pansiu," remarked Ulan Dhor. 'There are still many men in the world."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I must believe," said the girl. "You speak, you exist\emdash  so much is clear."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor noticed that she kept her eyes averted from the green cloak. It stank of fish; without further ado he cast it aside.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Her glance went to his red coat. "A Raider .. ." }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid15009510 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "No, no, no}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid15009510 !}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 " exclaimed Ulan Dhor. "In truth, I
 find this talk of color tiresome. I am Ulan Dhor of Kaiin, nephew to Prince Kandive the Golden, and my mission is to seek the tablets of Rogol Domedonfors."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The girl smiled wanly. "Thus do the Raiders, and thus they dress in red, and then every man's hand is turned against  them,  for when  they are in red,  who  knows whether they be Grays or ..." }{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid15009510 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Or what?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She appeared confused, as if this facet to the question had not occurred to her. "Ghosts? Demons? There are strange manifestations}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid13635587  in }{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ampridatvir."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Beyond argument," agreed Ulan Dhor. He glanced across, the square. "If you wish, I will guard you to your home; and perhaps there will be a corner where I may sleep tonight."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She said, "I owe you my life, and I will help you as best I can. But I dare not 
take you to my hall," Her eyes drifted down his body as far as his green trousers and veered away. "There would be confusion and unending explanations..."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor said obliquely, "You have a mate, then?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She glanced at him swiftly\emdash a strange coquetry, strange}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid14434050  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 flirtation there in the shadows of ancient Ampridatvir,}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid14434050  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 the girl in the coarse gray cloak, her head tilted sideways}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid14434050  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
and the yellow hair falling clear to her shoulder; Ulan}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid14434050  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Dhor elegant, darkly aquiline, in full command of his soul.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "No," she said. "There have been none, so far." A slight sound disturbed her; she jerked, looked fearfully across the square.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "There may be more Gauns. I can take you to a safe place; then tomorrow we will talk . . ."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She led him through an arched portico into one of the towers, up to a mezzanine floor. "You'll be safe here till morning." She squeezed his arm. "I'll bring yo}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid14434050 
u food, if you'll wait for me .}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 .."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I'll wait."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Her gaze fell with the strange half-averted wavering of the eyes to his red coat, just brushed his green t
rousers. "And I'll bring you a cloak." She departed. Ulan Dhor saw her flit down the stair and out of the tower like a wraith. She was gone.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He settled himself on the floor. It was a soft elastic substance, warm to the touch ... A strange city, thought Ulan Dhor, a strange people, reacting to unguessed compulsions. Or were they ghosts, in truth?}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He fell into a series of spasmodic dozes, and awoke at last to find the wan pink of the latter-day dawn seeping through the arched portico.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He rose to his feet, rub
bed his face, and, after a moment's hesitation, descended from the mezzanine to the floor of the tower and walked out into the street. A child in a gray smock saw his red coat, flicked his eyes away from the green trousers, screamed in terror, and ran acr
oss the square.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor ret}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid6381658 reated into the shadows with a c}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
urse. He had expected desolation. Hostility he could have countered or fled, but this bewildered fright left him helpless.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 A shape appeared at the entrance\emdash the girl. She peered through the shadows; her face was drawn, anxious. Ulan Dhor appeared. She smiled suddenly and her face changed.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I brought your breakfast," she said, "also a decent garment."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She lay bread and smoked fish before him, and poured warm herb tea from an earthenware jar.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 As he ate he watched her, and she watched him. There}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid6381658  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
was  a tension in their relations;  she felt incompletely secure, and he could sense the pressures on her mind.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "What is your name?" she asked.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I am Ulan Dhor. And you?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Elai."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Elai... Is that all?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Do I need more? It is sufficient, is it not?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Oh, indeed."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She seated herself cross-legged before him.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Tell me about the land from which you come."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
Ulan Dhor said, "Ascolais now is mostly a great forest, where few care to venture. I live in Kaiin, a very old city, perhaps as old as Ampridatvir, but we have no such towers and floating roads. We live in the old-time palaces of marble and wood, even the
 poorest and most menial. Indeed, some beautiful manses fall to ruins for lack of tenants."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "And what is your color?" she asked in a tentative voice.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor said impatiently, "Such nonsense. We wear all colors; no one thinks one way or the other about it ... Why do you worry about color so? For instance, why do you wear gray and not green?"}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Her gaze wavered and broke from his; she clenched her hands restlessly. "Green? That is the color of the demon Pansiu. No one in Ampridatvir wears green."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Certainly people wear green," said Ulan Dhor. "I met two fishermen yesterday at sea wearing green, and they guided me into the city."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She shook her head, smiling sadly. "You are mistaken."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor sat back. He said presently. "A child saw me this morning and ran off screaming."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
"Because of your red cloak," said Elai. "When a man wishes to win honor for himself, he dons a red coat and sets forth across the city to the ancient deserted temple of Pansiu, to seek the lost half of Rogol Domedonfors' tablet. Legend says t
hat when the Grays recover the lost tablet, then will thei}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid6381658 r power be strong once more." 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "If the temple is deserted," asked Ulan Dhor dryly, "why has not some man taken the tablet?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She shrugged and looked vaguely into space. "We believe that it is guarded by ghosts ... At any rate, sometimes a man in red is found raiding Cazdal's temple also,}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid6381658  }{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 whereupon he is killed. A man in red is therefore everybody's enemy, and every hand is turned against him."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor rose to his feet and wrapped himself in the gray robe the girl had brought.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "What are your plans?" she asked, rising quickly.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I wish to look upon the tablets of Rogol }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329 Do}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329\charrsid993056 medonfors}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
, both in Cazdal's Temple and in Pansiu's."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She shook her head. "Impossible. Cazdal's Temple is forbidden to all but the venerable priests, and Pansiu's Temple is guarded by ghosts."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor grinned. "If you'll show me}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid6381658  where the temples are situated\'85}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She said, "I'll go with you . . . But you must remain wrapped in the cloak, or it will go badly for both of us."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
They stepped out into the sunlight. The square was dotted with slow-moving groups of men and women. Some wore green, others wore gray, and Ulan Dhor saw that there was no intercourse between the two. Greens paused by little green-painted booths selling fi
sh, leather, fruit, meal, pottery, baskets. Grays bought from identical shops which were painted gray. He saw two groups of children, one in green rags, the other}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid13635587  in }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
gray, playing ten feet apart, acknowledging each other by not so much as a glance. A ball o
f tied rags rolled from the Gray children into the scuffling group of Greens. A Gray child ran over, picked up the ball from under the feet of a Green child, and neither took the slightest notice of the other.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Strange," muttered Ulan Dhor. "Strange."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "What's strange?" inquired Elai. "I see nothing strange . . ."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Look," said Ulan Dhor, "by that pillar. Do you see that man in the green cloak?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She glanced at him in puzzlement. "There is no man there."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 '"There is a man there," said Ulan Dhor. "Look again."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She laughed. "You are joking ... or can you see ghosts?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor shook his head in defeat. "You are the victims of some powerful magic."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She led him to one of the flowing roadways; as they were carried through the city he noticed a boat-shaped hull built of bright metal with four wheels and a transparent-domed compartment.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He pointed. "What is that?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "It is a magic car. When a certain lever
 is pressed the wizardry of the older times gives it great speed. Rash young men ride them along the streets . . . See there," and she pointed to a somewhat similar hull toppled into the basin of a long, dry fountain. "That is another one of the ancient w
onders\emdash a craft with the power to fly through the air. There are many of them scattered through the city\emdash on the towers, on high terraces, and sometimes, like this one, fallen into the streets."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "And no one flies them?" asked Ulan Dhor curiously.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "We are all afraid."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor thought, what a marvel to own one of these air-cars! He stepped off the flowing road.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Where are you going?" asked Elai anxiously, coming after him.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I wish to examine one of these air-cars."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Be careful, Ulan Dhor. They are said to be dangerous ..."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor peered through the transparent dome, saw a cushioned seat, a series of little levers inscribed with characters strange to him and a large knurled ball mounted on a metal rod.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He said to the girl, "Those are evidently the guides to the mechanism ... How does one enter such a car?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She said doubtfully, "This button will perhaps release the dome." She pressed a knob; the dome snapped back, releasing a puff of stagnant air.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Now," said Ulan Dhor, "I will experiment." He reached within, turned down a switch. Nothing happened.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Be careful, Ulan Dhor!" breathed the girl. "Beware of magic!"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor twisted a knob. The car quivered. He touched another lever. The boat made a curious whining sound, jerked. The dome began to settle. Ulan Dhor s
natched back his arm. The dome snapped into place over a fold of his gray cloak. The boat jerked again, made a sudden movement, and Ulan Dhor was dragged willy-nilly after.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Elai cried out, seized his ankles. Cursing, Ulan Dhor dropped out of his cloak, watched while the air-boat took a wild uncontrolled curvet, crashed against the side of a}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid6381658  }{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 tower. It fell with another clang of colliding metal and stone.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Next time," said Ulan Dhor, "I will.. ."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He became aware of a strange pressure in the air. He turned. Elai was staring at him, hand against her mouth, eyes screwed up as if she were repressing a scream.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor glanced around the streets. The slowly moving people, Grays and Greens, had vanished. The streets were empty.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Elai," said Ulan Dhor, "why do you look at me like that?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "The red, in daylight\emdash and the color of Pansiu on your legs\emdash it is our death, our death!"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "By no means," said Ulan Dhor cheerfully. "Not while I wear my sword and ..."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 A stone, coming from nowhere, crashed into the ground at his feet. He looked right and left for his assailant, nostrils flaring in anger.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 In vain. The doorways, the arcades, the porticos were bare and empty.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Another stone, large as his fist, struck him between the shoulder-blades. He sprang around and saw only the crumble facade of ancient Ampridatvir, the empty street, the glistening gliding strip.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 A stone hissed six inches from Elai's head, and at the same instant another struck his thigh.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor recognized defeat. He could not fight stones with his sword. "We had better retreat . . ." He ducked a great paving block that would have split his skull.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Back to the strip," the girl said in a dull and helpless voice. "We can take refuge across the square." A stone, looping idly down, struck her cheek; she cried in pain and fell to her knees.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor snarled like an animal and sought men to kill. But no living person, man, woman, or child, was visible, though the stones continued to hurtle at his head.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He stooped, picked up Elai and ran to the swift central flow of the strip.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The rain of stones presently halted. The girl opened her eyes, winced, and shut them again. "Everything whirls," she whispered. "I have gone mad. Almost I might think\emdash "}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor thought to recognize the tower where he}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid6381658  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
had spent the night. He stepped off the strip and approached the portico. He was wrong; a crystal plane barred him the tower. As he hesitated, it melted at a spot directly in front of hi}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid5053020 m and formed a doorway. Ulan Dho}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 r stared wonderingly. Further magic of the ancient builders ...}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 It was impersonal magic, and harmless. Ulan Dhor stepped through. The doorway dwindled, fused, and became clear crystal behind him.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The hall was bare and cold, though the walls were rich with colored metals and gorgeous enamel. A mural decorated one wall\emdash 
men and women in flowing clothes were depicted tending flowers in gardens curiously bright and sunny, playing airy games, dancing.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Very beautiful, thought Ulan Dhor, but no place to defend hims
elf against attack. Passageways to either side were echoing and empty; ahead was a small chamber with a floor of glimmering floss, which seemed to radiate light. He stepped within. His feet rose from the floor; he floated, lighter than thistle-down. Elai 
no longer weighed in his arms. He gave an involuntary hoarse call, struggled to return to his feet to ground, without success.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He floated upward like a leaf wafted in the wind. Ulan Dhor prepared himself for the sickening plunge when the magic quieted. But 
the floors fell past, and the ground level became ever more distant. A marvellous spell, thought Ulan Dhor grimly, thus to rob a man of his footing; how soon would the force relax and dash them to their deaths?}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Reach out," said Elai faintly. "Take hold of the bar."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He leaned far over, seized the railing, drew them to a}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid5053020  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 landing, and, disbelieving his own safety, stepped into an}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid5053020  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 apartment of several rooms. Crumbled heaps of dust were}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid5053020  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 all that remained of the furniture.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He lay Elai on the soft floor; she raised her hand to her face and smiled wanly. "Ooh\emdash it hurts."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor watched with a strange sense of weakness and lassitude.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Elai said, "I don't know what we will do now. There is no longer a home for me; so shall we starve, for no one will give us food."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor laughed sourly. "We will never lack for food\emdash not while the keeper of a Green booth can not see}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid5053020  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
a man in a gray cloak . . . But there are other things more important\emdash the tablets of Rogol Domedonfors\emdash  and they seem completely inaccessible."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She said earnestly, "You would be killed. The men in red must fight everyone\emdash 
as you saw today. And even if you reached the Temple of Pansiu, there are pitfalls, traps, poison stakes, and the ghosts on guard."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Ghosts? Nonsense. They are men, exactly like the Grays, except that they wear green. Your brain refuses to see men in green ... I have heard of such things, such obstructions of the mind ..."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She said in a injured tone, "No other Grays see them. Perhaps it is you who suffers the hallucinations."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Perhaps," ag
reed Ulan Dhor with a wry grin. They sat for a space in the dusty stillness of the old tower, then Ulan Dhor sat forward, clasped his knees, frowning. Lethargy was the precursor of defeat. "We must consider this Temple of Pansiu."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "We shall be killed," she said simply.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor, already}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid13635587  in }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 better spirits, said, "You should practice optimism . . . Where can I find another air-car?}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She stared at him. "Surely you are a madman!"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor rose to his feet. "Where may one be found?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She shook her head. "You are resolved on death, one way or another." She rose also. "We will ascend the Shaft of No-weight to the tower's highest level."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Without hesitation she stepped into the void, and Ulan Dhor gingerly followed. To the dizziest height 
they floated, and the walls of the shaft converged to a point far below. At the topmost landing they pulled themselves to solidity, stepped out on a terrace high up in the clean winds. Higher than the central mountains they stood, and the streets of Ampri
datvir were gray threads far below. The harbor was a basin, and the sea spread away into the haze at the horizon.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Three air-cars rested on the terrace, and the metal was as bright, the glass as clear, the enamel as vivid as if the cars had just dropped from the sky.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 They went to the nearest; Ulan Dhor pressed the entry button, and the dome slid back with a thin dry hiss of friction.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The interior was like that of the other car\emdash a long cushioned seat, a globe mounted on a rod, a number of}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid5053020  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 switches. The cloth of
 the seat crackled with age as Ulan Dhor prodded it with his hand, and the trapped air smelt very stale. He stepped inside, and Elai followed. "I will accompany you; death by falling is faster than starvation, and less painful than the rocks ..."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I hope we will neither fall nor starve," replied Ulan Dhor. Cautiously he touched the switches, ready to throw them back at any dangerous manifestation.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid5053020 The dome snapped over their}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  heads; relays thousands of years old meshed, cams twisted, shafts plunged home. The
 air-car jerked, lofted up into the red and dark blue sky. Ulan Dhor grasped the globe, found how to turn the boat, how to twist the nose up or down. This was pure joy, intoxication\emdash 
wonderful mastery of the air! It was easier than he had imagined. It was e
asier than walking. He tried all the handles and switches, found how to hover, drop, brake. He found the speed handle and pushed it far over, and the wind sang past the air-boat. Far over the sea they flew, until the island was blue loom at the rim of the
 world. Low and high\emdash skimming the wave-crests, plunging through the magenta wisps of the upper clouds.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Elai sat relaxed, calm, exalted. She had changed; she seemed closer to Ulan Dhor than to Ampridatvir; some subtle tie had been cut. "Let's go on," she said. "On and on and on\emdash 
across the world, past the forests ..."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor glanced at her sideways. She was very beautiful now\emdash cleaner, finer, stronger than the women he had known in Kaiin. He said regretfully, "Then we would starve indeed\emdash for neither of us ha
s the craft to survive in the wilderness. And I am bound to seek the tablets . .."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid5053020 She sighed. "Very }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 well. We will be killed. What does it matter? All Earth dies ..."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Evening came, and they returned to Ampridatvir. "There," said Elai, "there is the Temple of Cazdal and there the Temple of Pansiu."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor dropped the boat low over the Temple of Pansiu. "Where is the entrance?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Through the arch\emdash and every place holds a different danger."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "But we fly," Ulan Dhor reminded her.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He lowered the boat ten feet above the ground and slid it through the arch.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guided by a dim light ahead, Ulan Dhor manoeuvered the boat down the dark passage, through another arch; and they were in the nave.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
The podium where the tablet sat was like the citadel of a walled city. The first obstacle was a wide pit, backed by a glassy wall. Then there was a moat of sulfur-colored liquid, and beyond, in an open space, five men kept a torpid watch. Undetec
ted, Ulan Dhor moved the boat through the upper shadows and halted directly over the podium.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Ready now," he muttered, and grounded the boat. The glistening tablet was almost within reach. He raised the dome; Elai leaned out, seized the tablet. The five guards gave an anguished roar, rushed forward.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
"Back!" cried Ulan Dhor. He warded off a flying spear with his sword. She drew back with the tablet, Ulan Dhor slammed the dome. The guards leapt on the ship, clawing at the smooth metal, beating at it with thei
r fists. The ship rose high; one by one they lost their grip, fell screaming to the floor.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Back through the arch, down the back passageway, through the entrance and out into the dark sky. Behind them a great horn set up a crazy clangor.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor examined his prize\emdash an oval sheet of transparent substance bearing a dozen lines of meaningless marks.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "We have won!" said Elai raptly. "You are the Lord of }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329 Ampridatvir!}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Half yet remains," said Ulan Dhor. "There is still the tablet in the Temple of Cazdal."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "But\emdash it is madness! Already you have\emdash "}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "One is useless without the other."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Her wild arguments subsided only as they hovered over the arch into Cazdal's Temple.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 As the boat glided through the dark gap it struck a thread which dropped}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid10255708  a}{\i\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 grea
t load of stones from a chute. The first of these, striking the sloping side of the air-car, buffeted it away. Ulan Dhor cursed. The guards would be alert and watchful.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He drifted along at the very top of the passage, hidden in the murk. Presently two guards, bearing torches and careful of their steps, came to investigate the sound.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 They passed directly below the boat, and Ulan Dhor hastened forward, through the arch into the nave. As in the Temple of Pansiu, the tablet gleamed in the middle of a fortress.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The guards were wide awake, nervously watching the opening.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Boldness, now!" said Ulan Dhor. He sent the boat darting across the walls and pits and seething moat, settled beside the podium, snapped the dome back, sprang out. He seized the tablet as the gua
rds came roaring forward, spears extended. The foremost flung his spear; Ulan Dhor struck it down and tossed the tablet into the boat.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 But they were upon him; he would be impaled if he sought to climb within the boat. He sprang forward, hewed off the shaft
 of one spear, chopped at one man's shoulder on the back-sweep, seized the shaft of the third spear, and pulled the man into range of his sword point. The third guard fell back, shouting for help. Ulan Dhor turned, leapt into the boat. The guard rushed fo
rward, Ulan Dhor whirled and met him with the point of his sword in his cheek. Spouting blood and wailing hysterically, the guard fell back. Ulan Dhor threw the lift lever; the boat rose high and moved toward the opening.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 And presently the alarm horn at Cazdal's Temple was adding its harsh yell to the sound from across the city.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The boat drifted slowly through the sky.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Look!" said Elai, grasping his arm. By torchlight men and women crowded and milled in the streets\emdash  Greens and Grays, panicked by the message of the horns.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Elai gasped. "Ulan Dhor! I see! I see! The men in Green! It is possible . . . Have they always been . . ."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "The brain-spell has broken," said Ulan Dhor, "and not only for you. Below they see each other, too ..."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 For the first time in memory,
 Greens and Grays looked at each other. Their faces twisted, contorted. In the flicker of torches Ulan Dhor saw them drawing back in revulsion from each other, and heard the tumult of their cries: "Demon! . . . Demon! . . . Gray ghost! . . . Vile Green De
mon!.. "}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Thousands of obsessed torch-bearers sidled past each}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid10255708  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
other, glowering, reviling each other, screaming in hate and fear. They were all mad, he thought\emdash tangled, constricted of brain ...}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 As by a secret signal, the crowd seethed into battle, and the hateful yells curdled Ulan Dhor's blood. Elai turned sobbing away. Terrible work was done, on men, women, children\emdash 
no matter who the victim, if he wore the opposite color.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 A louder snarling arose at the edge of the mob\emdash 
a joyful sound, and a dozen shambling Gauns appeared, towering above the Greens and Grays. They rended, tore, ripped, and insane hate melted before fear. Greens and Grays separated, and ran to their homes, and the Guans roamed the streets alone.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor tore his glance away and held his forehead. "Was this my doing? . . . Was this a deed of mine?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Sooner or later it would have happened," said Elai dully. "Unless Earth waned and died first. . ."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor picked up the two tablets. "And here is what I sought to attain\emdash 
the tablets of Rogol Domedonfors. They pulled me a thousand leagues across the Melantine; I have them in my hands now, and they are like worthless shards of glass . . ."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The boat floated high, and Ampridatvir became a setting of pale crystals }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid10255708 in}{\i\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  }{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 the starlight. In the luminescence of the instrument panel, Ulan Dhor fitted the two tablets together. The marks merged, became characters, and the characters bore the words of the ancient magician:}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\insrsid10255708\charrsid993056 
\par }\pard \ql \fi360\li720\ri0\sb120\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid10255708 {\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Faithless children\emdash Rogol Domedon
fors dies, and so lives forever in the Ampridatvir he has loved and served! When intelligence and good will restore order to the city; or when blood and steel teaches the folly of bridled credulity and passion, and all but the toughest dead:\emdash 
then shall the
se tablets be read. And I say to him who reads it, go to the Tower of Fate with the yellow dome, ascend to the topmost floor, show red to the left eye of Rogol Domedonfors, yellow to the right eye, and then blue to both; do this, I say, and share the powe
r of Rogol Domedonfors."}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056 
\par }\pard \ql \fi360\li0\ri0\sb120\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10103342 {\f36\fs24\insrsid10255708\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid10255708 Ul}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 an }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid10255708 Dh}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 or  asked,  "Where is  the Tower  of Fate?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Elai shook her head. "There is Rodeil's Tower, and the Red Tower the Tower of the Screaming Ghost, and the Tower of Trumpets and the Bird's Tower and the Tower of Guans\emdash but I know of no Tower of Fate."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Which tower has a yellow dome?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I don't know."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "We will search in the morning."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "In the morning," she said leaning against him drowsily.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "The morning . . ." said Ulan Dhor, fondling her yellow hair.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 When the old red sun rose, they drifted back over the city a}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid10255708 nd found the people of Ampridatv}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 ir awake before them, intent on murder.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The fighting and the killing was not so wild as the night before. It was a craftier slaughter. Stealthy groups of men waylaid stragglers, or broke into houses to strangle women and children.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor muttered, "Soon there will be none left i}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid10255708 n Ampridatvir upon whom to work}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
 Rogol Domedonfors' power." He turned to Elai. "Have you no father, no mother, for whom you fear?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She shook her head. "I have lived my life with a dull and tyrannical uncle."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor turned away. He saw a yellow dome; no other was visible: The Tower of Fate.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "There." He pointed, turned down the nose of the air-car.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Parking on a high level, they enter
ed the dusty corridors, found an anti-gravity shaft, and rose to the top-most floor. Here they found a small chamber, decorated with vivid murals. The scene was a court of ancient Ampridatvir. Men and women in colored silks conversed and banqueted and, in
 the central plaque, paid homage to a patriarchal ruler with a rugged chin, burning eyes, and a white beard. He was clad in a purple and black gown and sat on a carved chair.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Rogol Domedonfors!" murmured Elai, and the room held its breath, grew still. They felt the stir their living breath made in the long-quiet air, and the depicted eyes stared deep into their brains . . .}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor said, " 'Red to the left eye, yellow to the}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid4073275  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 right; then blue to both.' Well\emdash 
there are blue tiles in the hall, and I wear a red coat."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 They found blue and yellow tiles, and Ulan Dhor cut a strip from the hem of his tunic.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Red to the left eye, yellow to the right. Blue to both. A click, a screech, a whirring like a hundred bee-hives.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The wall opened on a flight of steps. Ulan Dhor entered, and, with Elai breathing hard at his back, mounted the steps.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 They came out in a flood of daylight, under the dome itself. In the center on a pedestral sat a glistening round-topped cylinder, black and vitreous.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The whirring rose to a shrill whine. The cylinder quivered, softened, became barely transparent, slumped a trifle. In the center hung a pulpy white mass\emdash a brain?}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The cylinder was alive.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 It sprouted pseudopods which poised wavering in the air. Ulan Dhor and Elai watched frozen, close together. One black finger shaped itself to an eye, another formed a mouth. The eye inspected them carefully.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The mouth said cheerfully, "Greetings across time, greetings. So you have come }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid15532258 at last to rouse old Rogol Dome}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
donfors from his dreams? I have dreamed long and well\emdash  but it seems for an unconscionable period. How long? Twenty years? Fifty years? Let me look."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The eye swung to a tube on the wall, a quarter full of gray powder.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The mouth gave a cry of wonder. "The energy has nearly dissipated! How long have I slept? With a half-life of 1,200 years\emdash 
over five thousand years!" The eye swung back to Ulan Dhor and Elai. "Who are you then? Where are my bickering subjects, the adherents of Pansiu and Cazdal? Did they kill themselves then, so long ago?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "No," said Ulan Dhor with a sick grin. "They are still fighting in the streets."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The eye-tentacle extended swiftly, thrust through a window, and looked down over the city. The central jelly twitched, became suffused with an orange glow. The voice spoke again, and it he
ld a terrible harshness. Ulan Dhor's neck tingled and he felt Elai's hand clenching deep into his arm.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Five thousand years!" cried the voice. "Five thousand years and the wretches still quarrel? Time has taught them}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid15532258  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
no wisdom? Then stronger agencies must be used. Rogol Domedonfors will show them wisdom. Behold!"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 A vast sound came from below, a hundred sharp reports. Ulan Dhor and Elai hastened to the window and looked down. A mind-filling sight occupied the streets.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The ten-foot vestibules leading below the city had snapped open. From each of these licked a great tentacle of black transparent jelly like the substance of the fluid roads.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The tentacles reached into the air, sprouted a hundred branches which pursued the madly fleeing Ampridatvians, caught them, stripped away their robes of gray and green, then whipping them high through the }{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid15532258 air}{\i\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 , }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
dropped them into the great central square. In the chill morning air the populace of Ampridatvir stood mingled naked together and}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid15532258  no man could distinguish Green }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 from Gray.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Rogol Domedonfors has great long arms now," cried a vast voice, "strong as the moon, all-seeing as the air."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The voice came from everywhere, nowhere.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I'm Rogol Domedonfors, the last ruler of Ampridatvir. And to this state have you descended? Dwellers in hovels, eaters of filth? Watch\emdash in a moment I repair the neglect of five thousand years!"}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The tentacles sprouted a thousand appendages\emdash hard horny cutters, nozzles tha
t spouted blue flame, tremendous scoops, and each appendage sprouted an eye-stalk. These ranged the city, and wherever there was crumbling or mark of age the tentacles dug, tore, blasted, burnt; then spewed new materials into place and when they passed ne
w and gleaming structure remained behind.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
Many-armed tentacles gathered the litter of ages; when loaded they snapped high through the air, a monstrous catapult, flinging the rubbish far out over the sea. And wherever was gray paint or green paint a tentacle
 ground off the color, sprayed new various pigments.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Down every street ran the tremendous root-things and offshoots plunged into every tower, every dwelling, every park and square\emdash demolishing, stripping, building, clearing, repairing. Ampridatvir was gripp
ed and permeated by Rogol Domedonfors as a tree's roots clench the ground.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 In a time measured by breaths,  a new Ampridatvir}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid15532258  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 had replaced the ruins, a gleaming, glistening city\emdash 
 proud, intrepid, challenging the red sun.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor and Elai had watched in a half-conscious, uncomprehending daze. Was it possibly reality; was there such a being which could demolish a city and build it anew while a man watched?}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Arms of black jelly darted over the hills of the island, threaded the caves where the Gauns lay gorged and torpid. It seized, snatched them through the air, and dangled them above the huddled Ampridatvians
\emdash a hundred Gauns on a hundred tentacles, horrible fruits on a weird tree.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Look!" boomed a voice, boastful and wild. "These whom you have }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329 feared!}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  See how Rogol Domedonfors deals with these!}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The tentacles flicked, and a hundred Gauns hurtled \emdash sprawling, wheeling shapes\emdash high over Ampridatvir; and they fell far out in the sea.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "The creature is mad," whispered Ulan Dhor to Elai. "The long dreaming has addled its brain."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Behold the new Ampridatvir!" boomed the mighty voice. "See it for the first and last time. For now you die! You have proved unworthy of the past\emdash 
unworthy to worship the new god Rogol Domedonfors. There are two here beside me who shall found the new race\emdash "}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor started in alarm. What? He to live in Ampridatvir under the thumb of the mad super-being?}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 No.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 And perhaps he would never be so close to the brain again.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 With a single motion he drew his sword and hurled it point-first into the translucent cylinder of jelly\emdash transfixed the brain, skewered it on the shaft of steel.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The most awful sound yet heard on Earth shattered the air. Men and women went mad in the square.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Rogol Domedonfors' city-girding tentacles beat up and down in frantic agony, as an injured insect lashes his legs. The gorgeous towers toppled, the Ampridatvians fled shrieking through cataclysm.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor and Elai ran for the terrace where they had left the air-car. Behind they heard a hoarse whisper \emdash a broken voice.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid15532258 "I}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 \emdash am not\emdash dead\emdash yet! If all else, if all dreams are broken\emdash I will kill you two . .."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 They tumbled into the air-car. Ulan Dhor threw it into the air. By a terrible effort a tentacle stopped its mad thrashing and jerked up to intercept them. Ulan Dhor swe}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid15532258 
rved, plunged off through the sk}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 y. The tentacle darted to cut them off.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor pressed hard down on the speed lever, and air whined and sang behind the craft. And directly behind came the wavering black arm of the dying god, straining to touch the fleeting midge that had s
o hurt it.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "More! More!" prayed Ulan Dhor to the air-car.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Go higher," whispered the girl. "Higher\emdash faster\emdash "}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor tilted the nose; up on a slant flashed the car, and the straining arm followed behind\emdash a tremendous member stretching rigid through the sky, a black rainbow footed in distant Ampridatvir.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Rogol Domedonfors died. The arm snapped into a wisp of smoke and slowly sank toward the sea.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor held his boat at full speed until the island disappeared across the horizon. He slowed, sighed, relaxed.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Elai suddenly flung herself against his shoulder and burst into hysteria.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Quiet, girl, quiet," admonished Ulan Dhor. "We are safe; we are forever done of the cursed city."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She quieted; presently: "Where do we go now?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
Ulan Dhor's eyes roved about the air-car with doubt and calculation. "There will be no magic for Kandive. However, I will have a great tale to tell him, and he may be satisfied . . . He will surely want the air-car. But I will contrive, I will contrive . 
. ."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She whispered, "Cannot we fly to the east, and fly and fly and fly, till we find where the sun rises, and perhaps a quiet meadow where there are fruit trees . . ."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ulan Dhor looked to the south and thought of Kaiin with its quiet nights and wine-colore
d days, the wide palace where he made his home, and the couch from which he could look out over Sanreale Bay, the ancient olive trees, the harlequinade festival-times.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He said, "Elai, you will like Kaiin."}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid10779503 
\par }{\f36\fs24\insrsid10779503\charrsid993056 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\sb120\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10103342 \b\f1\fs26\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 6. GUYAL OF SFERE}{\insrsid993056 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sb120\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10103342 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid993056 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\scaps\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 guyal of sfere }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 had been bor
n one apart from his fellows and early proved a source of vexation for his sire. Normal in outward configuration, there existed within his mind a void which ached for nourishment. It was as if a spell had been cast upon his birth, a harrassment visited on
 the child in a spirit of sardonic mockery, so that every occurrence, no matter how trifling, became a source of wonder and amazement. Even as young as four seasons he was expounding such inquiries as:}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }\pard \ql \fi360\li0\ri0\sb120\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10103342 {\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Why do squares have more sides than triangles?" }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid11929225 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "How will we see when the sun goes dark?" }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid11929225 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Do flowers grow under the ocean?" }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid11929225 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Do stars hiss and sizzle when rain comes by night?"}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid11929225 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  To which his impatient sire gave such answers as: }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid11929225 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "So it was ordained by the Pragmatica; squares and triangles must obey the rote."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "We will be forced to grope and feel our way." }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid11929225 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I have never verified this matter; only the Curator would know."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "By  no  means,   since  the  stars  are  high   above  the}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid11929225  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 ra}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid11929225 in}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 ,  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid11929225 h}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 ig}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid11929225 h}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 er  even  than  the  highe
st  clouds,   and  swim in rarified air where rain will never breed."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 As Guyal grew to youth, this void in his mind, instead of becoming limp and waxy, seemed to throb with a more violent ache. And so he asked:}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Why do people die when they are killed?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Where does beauty vanish when it goes?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "How long have men lived on Earth?""}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "What is beyond the sky?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 To which his sire, biting acerbity back from his lips, would respond:}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Death is the heritage of life; a man's vitality is like air in a bladder. Poinct this bubble and away, away, away, flees life, like the color of fading dream."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid11929225 "Beauty is a luster which love}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  bestows to guile the eye. Therefore it may be said that only when the brain is without love will the eye look and see no beauty."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Some say men rose from the earth like grubs in a corpse; others aver that the first men desired residence and so created Earth by sorcery. The question is shrouded in technicality; only the
 Curator may answer with exactness."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "An endless waste."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 And Guyal pondered and postulated, proposed and expounded, until he found himself the subject of surreptitious humor. The demesne was visited by a rumor that a gleft, coming upon Guyal's mother in la
bor, had stolen part of Guyal's brain, which deficiency he now industriously sought to restore.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal therefore drew himself apart and roamed the grassy hills of Sfere in solitude. But ever was his mind }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329\charrsid993056 acquisitive}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
, ever did he seek to exhaust the lore of all around him, until at last his father in vexation refused to hear further inquiries, declaring that all }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329\charrsid993056 knowledge}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
 had been known, that the trivial and useless had been discarded, leaving a residue which was all that was necessary to a sound man.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 At this time Guyal was in his first manhood, a slight but well-knit youth with wide clear eyes, a penchant for severely elegant dress, and a hidden }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329\charrsid993056 trouble}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  which showed itself in the clamps at the corner of his mouth.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Hearing his father's angry statement Guyal said, "One more question, then I ask no more."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Speak," declared his father. "One more question I grant you."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "You have often referred me to the Curator; who is he, and where may I find him, so as to allay my ache for knowledge?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 A moment the father scrutini
zed the son, whom he now considered past the verge of madness. Then he responded in a quiet voice, "The Curator guards the Museum of Man, which antique legend places in the Land of the Falling Wall\emdash 
beyond the mountains of Fer Aquila and north of Ascolais. It is not certain that either Curator or Museum still exist; still it would seem that if the Curator knows all things, as is the legend, then surely he would know the wizardly foil to death."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal said, "I would seek the Curator and the Museum of Man, that I likewise may know all things."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
The father said with patience, "I will bestow on you my fine white horse, my Expansible Egg for your shelter, my Scintillant Dagger to illuminate the night. In addition, I lay a blessing along the trail, and danger will s
lide you by so long as you never wander from the trail."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal quelled the hundred new questions at his tongue, including an inquisition as to where his father had learned these manifestations of sorcery, and accepted the gifts: the horse, the magic shelte
r, the dagger with the luminous pommel, and the blessing to guard him from the disadvantageous circumstances which plagued travellers along the dim trails of Ascolais.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He caparisoned the horse, honed the dagger, cast a last glance around the old manse at Sfere, and set forth to the north, with the void in his mind athrob for the soothing pressure of knowledge.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He ferried the River Scaum on an old barge. Aboard the barge and so off the trail, the blessing lost its puissance and the barge-tender, who coveted 
Guyal's rich accoutrements, sought to cudgel him with a knoblolly. Guyal fended off the blow and kicked the man into the murky deep, where he drowned.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Mounting the north bank of the Scaum he saw ahead the Porphiron Scar, the dark poplars and white columns of Kaiin, the dull gleam of Sanreale Bay.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Wandering  the  crumbled streets,  he  put  the  languid}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid294682  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
inhabitants such a spate of questions that one in wry jocularity commended him to a professional augur.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 This one dwelled in a booth painted with the Signs of the Aumoklopelastianic Cabal. He was a lank brownman with red-rimmed eyes and a stained white beard.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "What are your fees?" inquired Guyal cautiously.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I respond to three questions," stated the augur. "F
or twenty terces I phrase the answer in clear and actionable language; for ten I use the language of cant, which occasionally admits of ambiguity; for five, I speak a parable which you must interpret as you will; and for one terce, I babble in an unknown 
tongue."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "First I must inquire, how profound is your knowledge?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I know all," responded the augur. "The secrets of red and the secrets of black, the lost spells of Grand Motholam, the way of the fish and the voice of the bird."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "And where have you learned all these things?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "By pure induction," explained the augur. "I retire into my booth, I closet myself with never a glint of light, and, so sequestered, I resolve the profundities of the world."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "With all this precious knowledge at hand," ventured Guyal, "why do you live so meagerly, with not an ounce of fat to your frame and these miserable rags to your back?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The augur stood back in fury. "Go along, go along! Already I have wasted fifty terces o
f wisdom on you, who have never a copper to your pouch. If you desire free enlightenment," and he cackled in mirth, "seek out the Curator." And he sheltered himself}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid13635587  in }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 his booth.
}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal took lodging for the night, and in the morning continued north. The ravaged acres of the Old Town passed to his left, and the trail took to the fabulous forest}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 For many a day Guyal rode north, and, heedful of danger, held to the trail. By night he surrounded himself and his horse in his magical habiliment, the Expansible Egg \emdash 
a membrane impermeable to thew, claw, ensorcelment, pressure, sound and chill\emdash and so rested at ease despite the efforts of the avid creatures of the dark.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The great dull globe of the sun fell behind him; the days became wan and the nights bitter, and at last the crags of Fer Aquila showed as a tracing on the north horizon.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The forest had become lower and less dense, and the characteristic tree was the daobado, a rounded massy construction of heavy gnarled branches, these a burnished r}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid294682 
usset bronze, clumped with dark}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
 balls of foliage. Beside a giant of the species Guyal came upon a village of turf huts. A gaggle of surly louts appeared and surrounded him with expressions of curiosity. Guyal, no less than the villagers, had questions to ask, but none would spe
ak till the hetman strode up\emdash 
a burly man who wore a shaggy fur hat, a cloak of brown fur and a bristling beard, so that it was hard to see where one ended and the other began. He exuded a rancid odor which displeased Guyal, who, from motives of courtesy, kept his distaste concealed.}
{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Where go you?" asked the hetman.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I wish to cross the mountains to the Museum of Man," said Guyal. "Which way does the trail lead?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The hetman pointed out }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid294682\charrsid294682 a}{\i\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
notch on the silhouette of the mountains. "There is Omona Gap, which i
s the shortest and best route, though there is no trail. None comes and none goes, since when you pass the Gap, you walk an unknown land. And with no traffic there manifestly need be no trail."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The news did not cheer Guyal.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "How then is it known that Omona Gap is on the way to the Museum?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The hetman shrugged. "Such is our tradition."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal turned his head at a hoarse snuffling and saw a pen of woven wattles. In a litter of filth and matted straw stood a number of hulking men eight or nine feet tall. They w
ere naked, with shocks of dirty yellow hair and watery blue eyes. They had waxy faces and expressions of crass stupidity. As Guyal watched, one of them ambled to a trough and noisily began gulping gray mash.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal said, "What manner of things are these?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The hetman blinked}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid13635587  in }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
amusement to Guyal's naivete. "Those are our oasts, naturally." And he gestured in disapprobation at Guyal's white horse. "Never have I seen a stranger oast than the one you bestride. Ours carry us easier and appear to b
e less vicious; in addition no flesh is more delicious than oast properly braised and kettled."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Standing close, he fondled the metal of Guyal's saddle and the red and yellow embroidered quilt. "Your deckings however are rich and of superb quality. I will t
herefore bestow you my large and weighty oast in return for this creature with its accoutrements."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal politely declared himself satisfied with his present mount, and the hetman shrugged his shoulders.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 A horn sounded. The hetman looked about, then turned back to Guyal. "Food is prepared; will you eat?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal glanced toward the oast-pen. "I am not presently hungry, and I must hasten forward. However, I am grateful for your kindness."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He departed; as he passed under the arch of the great daobado, he turned 
a glance back toward the village. There seemed an unwonted activity among the huts. Remembering the hetman's covetous touch at his saddle, and aware that no longer did he ride the protected trail, Guyal urged his horse forward and pounded fast under the t
rees.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
As he neared the foothills the forest dwindled to a savannah, floored with a dull, joined grass that creaked under the horse's hooves. Guyal glanced up and down the plain. The sun, old and red as an autumn pomegranate, wallowed in the south-west; the 
light across the plain was dim and watery; the mountains presented a curiously artificial aspect, like a tableau planned for the effect of eery desolation.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal glanced once again at the sun. Another hour of light, then the dark night of the latter-day Ea
rth. Guyal twisted in the saddle, looked behind him, feeling lone, solitary, vulnerable. Four oasts, carrying men on their shoulders, came trotting from the forest. Sighting Guyal, they broke into a lumbering run. With a crawling skin Guyal wheeled his ho
rse and eased the reins, and the white horse loped across the plain toward Omona Gap. Behind came the oasts, bestraddled by the fur-cloaked villagers.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 As the sun touched the horizon, another forest ahead showed as an indistinct line of murk. Guyal looked ba
ck to his pursuers, bounding now a mile behind, turned his gaze back to the forest. An ill place to ride by night . . .}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The darkling foliage loomed above him; he passed under the first gnarled boughs. If the oasts were unable to sniff out a trail, they mig
ht now be eluded. He changed directions, turned once, twice, a third time, then stood his horse to listen. Far away a crashing in the brake reached his ears. Guyal dismounted, led the horse into a deep hollow where a bank of foliage made a screen. Present
ly the four men on their hulking oasts passed in the afterglow above him, black double-shapes in attitudes suggestive of ill-temper and disappointment.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The thud and pad of feet dwindled and died.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The horse moved restlessly; the foliage rustled.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 A damp air passed down the hollow and chilled the back of Guyal's neck. Darkness rose from old Earth like ink in a basin.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal shivered: best to ride away through the forest, away from the dour villagers and their numb mounts. Away . . .}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He turned his horse up to the height where the four had passed and sat listening. Far down the wind he heard a hoarse call. Turning in the opposite direction he let the horse choose its own path.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Branches and boughs knit patterns on the fading purple over 
him; the air smelt of moss and dank mold. The horse stopped short. Guyal, tensing in every muscle, leaned a little forward, head twisted, listening. There was a feel of danger on his cheek. The air was still, uncanny; his eyes could plumb not ten feet int
o the black. Somewhere near was death\emdash grinding, roaring death, to come as a sudden shock.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Sweating cold, afraid to stir a muscle, he forced himself to dismount. Stiffly he slid from the saddle, brought forth the Expansible Egg, and flung it around his horse
 and himself. Ah, now . . . Guyal released the pressure of his breath. Safety.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Wan red light slanted through the branches from the east. Guyal's breath steamed in the air when he emerged from the Egg. After a handful of dried fruit for himself and a sack o
f meal for the horse, he mounted and set out toward the mountains.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The forest passed, and Guyal rode out on an upland. He scanned the line of mountains. Suffused with rose sunlight, the gray, sage green, dark green range rambled far to the west toward the 
Melantine, far to the east into the Falling Wall country. Where was Omona Gap?}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal of Sfere searched in vain for the notch which had been visible from the village of the fur-cloaked murderers.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid5594899 He frowned and tu}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 rned his eyes up the height of the mountains
. Weathered by the rains of earth's duration, the slopes were easy and the crags rose like the stumps of rotten teeth. Guyal turned his horse uphill and rode the trackless slope into the mountains of Fer Aquila.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal of Sfere had lost his way in a land of
 wind and naked crags. As night came he slouched numbly in the saddle while his horse took him where it would. Somewhere the ancient way through Omona Gap led to the northern tundra, but now, under a chilly overcast, north, east, south, and west were alik
e
 under the lavender-metal sky. Guyal reined his horse and, rising in the saddle, searched the landscape. The crags rose, tall, remote; the ground was barren of all but clumps of dry shrub. He slumped back in the saddle, and his white horse jogged forward.
}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Head bowed to the wind rode Guyal, and the mountains slanted along the twilight like the skeleton of a fossil god.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The horse halted, and Guyal found himself at the brink of a wide valley. The wind had died; the valley was quiet. Guyal leaned forward, stari
ng. Below spread a dark and lifeless city. Mist blew along the streets and the afterglow fell dull on slate roofs.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The horse snorted and scraped the stony ground.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "A strange town," said Guyal, "with no lights, no sound, no smell of smoke . . . Doubtless an abandoned ruin from ancient times .. ."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
He debated descending to the streets. At times the old ruins were haunted by peculiar distillations, but such a ruin might be joined by the tundra by a trail. With this thought in mind he started his horse down the slope.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
He entered the town and the hooves rang loud and sharp on the cobbles. The buildings were framed of stone and dark mortar and seemed in uncommonly good preservation. A few lintels had cracked and sagged, a few walls gaped open, but for the most part
 the stone houses had successfully met the gnaw of time . . . Guyal scented smoke. Did people live here still? He would proceed with caution.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Before a building which seemed to be a hostelry flowers bloomed in an urn. Guyal reined his horse and refle}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid5594899 c}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 ted th
at flowers were rarely cherished by persons of hostile disposition.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329 Hallo!}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 " he called\emdash once, twice.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 No heads peered from the doors, no orange flicker brightened the windows. Guyal slowly turned and rode on.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
The street widened and twisted toward a large hall, where Guyal saw a light. The building had a high facade, broken by four large windows, each of which had its two blinds of patined bronze filigree, and each overlooked a small balcony. A marble balustrad
e fronting the terrace shimmered bone-white and, behind, the hall's portal of massive wood stood }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329\charrsid993056 slightly}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
 ajar; from here came the beam of light and also a strain of music.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal of Sfere, halting, gazed not at the house nor at the light through the door. H
e dismounted and bowed to the young woman who sat pensively along the course of the balustrade. Though it was very cold, she wore but a simple gown, yellow-orange, a daffodil's color. Topaz hair fell loose to her shoulders and gave her face a cast of grav
ity and thoughtfulness.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 As Guyal straightened from his greeting the woman nodded, smiled slightly, and absently fingered the hair by her cheek.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "A bitter night for travelers."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "A bitter night for musing on the stars," responded Guyal.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She smiled again. "I am not cold. I sit and dream . . . I listen to the music."                           --}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "What place is this?" inquired Guyal, looking up the street, down the street, and once more to the girl. "Are there any here but yourself?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "This is Carchesel," said the girl, "abandoned by all ten thousand years ago. Only I and my aged uncle live here, finding this place a refuge from the Saponids of the tundra."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal thought: this woman may or may not be a witch.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "You are cold and weary," said the girl, "and I keep you standing in the street." She rose to her feet. "Our hospitality is yours."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Which I }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329\charrsid993056 gladly}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  accept," said Guyal, "but first I must stable my horse."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "He will be content in the house yonder. We have no stable." Guyal, following her finger, saw a low stone building with a door opening into blackness.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He took the white horse thither and removed the bridle and saddle; then, standing in the doorway, he listened to the music he had noted before, the piping of a weird and ancient air.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Strange, strange," he muttered, stroking the horse's muzzle. "The uncle plays music, the girl stares alone at the stars of the night . . ." He considered a moment. "I may be ove
r-suspicious. If witch she be, there is naught to be gained from me. If they be simple refugees as she says, and lovers of music, they may enjoy the airs from Ascolais; it will repay, in some measure, their hospitality." He reached into his saddle-bag, br
ought forth his flute, and tucked it inside his jerkin.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He ran back to where the girl awaited him.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "You have not told me your name," she reminded him, "that I may introduce you to my uncle."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I am Guyal of Sfere, by the River Scaum in Ascolais. And you?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She smiled, pushing the portal wider. Warm yellow light fell into the cobbled street.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I have no name. I need none. There has never been any but my uncle; and when he speaks, there is no one to answer but I."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal stared in astonishment; then, deeming his wonder too apparent for courtesy, he controlled his expression. Perhaps she suspected him of wizardry and feared to pronounce her name lest he make magic with it.
}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 They entered a flagged hall, and the sound of piping grew louder.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I will call you Ameth, if I may," said Guyal. "That is a flower of the south, as golden and kind and fragrant as you seem to be."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She nodded. "You may call me Ameth."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 They entered a tapestry-hung chamber, large and warm. A great fire glowed at one wall, and here stood a table bearing food. On a bench sat the musician\emdash 
an old man, untidy, unkempt. His white hair hung tangled down his back; his beard, in no better case, was dirty and yellow. He wore a ragged kirtle, by no means clean, and the leather of his sandals had broken into dry cracks.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Strangely, be did not take the }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid5864358 fl}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 ute }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329 f}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329\charrsid993056 rom}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  his mouth, but kept up his piping; and the girl in yellow, so Guyal noted, seemed to move in rhythm to the tones.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Uncle Ludowik," she cried in a gay voice, "I bring you a guest, Sir Guyal of Sfere."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal looked into the man's face and wondered. The eyes, though somewhat rheumy with age, were gray and bright\emdash 
feverishly bright and intelligent; and, so Guyal thought, awake with a strange joy. This joy further puzzled Guyal, for the lines of the face indicated nothing other than years of misery.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
"Perhaps you play?" inquired Ameth. "My uncle is a great musician, and this is his time for music. He has kept the routine for many years . . ." She turned and smiled at Ludowik the musician. Guyal nodded politely.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ameth motioned to the bounteous table. "Eat, Guyal, and I will pour you wine. Afterwards perhaps you will play the flute for us."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Gladly," said Guyal, and he noticed how the joy on Ludowik's face grew more apparent, quivering around the corners of his mouth.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He ate and Ameth poured him golden wine until his head went to reeling. And never did Ludowik cease his piping\emdash 
now a tender melody of running water, again a grave tune that told of the lost ocean to the west, another time a simple melody such as a child might sing at his games. Guyal noted with wonder how Ameth fitted her mood to the music\emdash 
grave and gay as the music led her. Strange! thought Guyal. But then\emdash people thus isolated were apt to develop peculiar mannerisms, and they seemed kindly withal.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He
 finished his meal and stood erect, steadying himself against the table. Ludowik was playing a lilting tune, a melody of glass birds swinging round and round on a red string in the sunlight. Ameth came dancing over to him and stood close\emdash very close
\emdash and he smelled the warm perfume of her loose golden hair. Her face was happy and wild . . . Peculiar how Ludowik watched so grimly, and yet without a word. Perhaps he misdoubted a stranger's intent. Still...}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Now," breathed Ameth, "perhaps you will play the flute; you are so strong and young." Then she said quickly, as she saw Guyal's eyes widen. "I mean you will}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid5864358  }{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 p}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid5864358 l}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 ay on }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid5864358 th}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 e }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid5864358 flut}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 e }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid5864358 f}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 or old uncle Ludowik, and he will be happy and go off to bed\emdash and then we will sit and talk far into the night."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Gladly will I play the flute," said Guyal. Curse the tongue of his, at once so fluent and yet so numb. It was the wine. "Gladly will I play. I am accounted quite skillfull at my home manse at Sfere."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He glanced at Ludowik, then stared at the expression of crazy gladness he had surprised. Marvelous that a man should be so fond of music.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Then\emdash play!" breathed Ameth, urging him a little toward Ludowik and the flute.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Perhaps," suggested Guyal, "I had better wait till your uncle pauses. I would seem discourteous\emdash "}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "No, as soon as you indicate that you wish to play, he will let off. Merely take the flute. You see," she confided, "he is rather deaf."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Very well," said Guyal, "except that I have my own flute." And he brought it out from under his jerkin. "Why \emdash what is the matter?" For 
a startling change had come over the girl and the old man. A quick light had risen in her eyes, and Ludowik's strange gladness had gone, and there was but dull hopelessness in his eyes, stupid resignation.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal slowly stood back, bewildered. "Do you not wish me to play?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 There was a pause. "Of course," said Ameth, young and charming once more. "But I'm sure that Uncle Ludowik would enjoy hearing you play his flute. He is accustomed to the pitch\emdash another scal
e might be unfamiliar . .."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
Ludowik nodded, and hope again shone in the rheumy old eyes. It was indeed a fine flute, Guyal saw, a rich piece of white metal, chased and set with gold, and Ludowik clutched this flute as if he would never let go.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Take the fl
ute," suggested Ameth. "He will not mind in the least." Ludowik shook his head, to signify the absence of his objections. But Guyal, noting with distaste the long stained beard, also shook his head. "I can play any scale, any tone on my flute. There is no
 need for me to use that of your uncle and possibly distress him. Listen," and he raised his instrument. "Here is a song of Kaiin, called 'The Opal, the Pearl}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid5864358  and the Peacock}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 ."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He put the pipe to his lips and began to play, very skillfully indeed, and Ludow
ik followed him, filling in gaps, making chords. Ameth, forgetting her vexation, listened with eyes half-closed, and moved her arm to the rhythm.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Did you enjoy that?" asked Guyal, when he had finished.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Very much. Perhaps you would }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid5864358 try it on Uncle Ludo}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 wik's flute? It is a fine flute to play, very soft and easy to the breath."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "No," said Guyal, with sudden obstinacy. "I am able to play only my own instrument." He blew again, and it was a dance of the festival, a quirking carnival air. Ludowik, playing with 
supernal skill, ran merry phrases as might fit, and Ameth, carried away by the rhythm, danced a dance of her own, a merry step}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid13635587  in }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 time to the music.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal played a wild tarantella of the peasant folk, and Ameth danced wilder and faster, flung her arms, whe
eled, jerked her head in a fine display. And Ludowik's flute played a brilliant obbligato, hurtling over, now under, chording, veering, warping little silver strings of sound around Guyal's melody, adding urgent little grace-phrases.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ludowik's eyes now clu
ng to the whirling figure of the dancing girl. And suddenly he struck up a theme of his own, a tune of wildest abandon, of a frenzied beating rhythm; and Guyal, carried away by the force of the music, blew as he never had blown before, invented trills and
 runs, gyrating arpeggios, blew high and shrill, loud and fast and clear.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 It was as nothing to Ludowik's music. His eyes were starting; sweat streamed from his seamed old forehead; his flute tore the air into quivering ecstatic shreds.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ameth danced frenzy; 
she was no longer beautiful, she appeared grotesque and unfamiliar. The music became something more than the senses could bear. Guyal's own vision turned pink and gray; he saw Ameth fall in a faint, in a foaming fit; and Ludowik, fiery-eyed, staggered ere
ct, hobbled to her body and began a terrible intense concord, slow measures of most solemn and frightening meaning.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Ludowik played death.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal of Sfere turned and ran wide-eyed from the hall.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid5864358\charrsid5864358 Ludowik}{\i\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 , }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 never noticing
, continued his terrible piping, played as if every note were a skewer through the twitching girl's shoulder-blades.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal ran through the night, and cold air bit at him like sleet. He burst into the shed, and the white horse softly nickered at him. On wit
h the saddle, on with the bridle, away down the streets of old Carchasel, past the gaping black windows, ringing down the starlit cobbles, away from the music of death!}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal of Sfere galloped up the mountain with the stars in his face, and not until he came to the shoulder did he turn in the saddle to look back.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The verging of dawn trembled into the stony valley. Where was Carchasel? There was no city\emdash only a crumble of ruins ...}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Hark! A far sound? ...}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 No. All was silence.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 And yet...}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 No. Only crumbled stones in the floor of the valley.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal, fixed of eye, turned and went his way, along the trail which stretched north before him.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The walls of the defile which led the trail were steep gray granite, stained scarlet and black by lichen, mildewed }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid12797010 blue. The horse's hooves }{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
made a hollow clop-clop-clop on the stone, loud to Guyal's ears, hypnotic to his brain, and after the sleepless night he found his frame sagging. His eyes grew dim and warm with drowsiness, but the trail ahead led to unseen vistas, and the void i
n Guyal's brain drove him without surcease.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid12797010  lassitude became such that Guy}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
al slipped halfway from his saddle. Rousing himself, he resolved to round one more bend in the trail and then take rest.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid12797010 The rock beetled above and h}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 id the sky where the sun had 
passed the zenith. The trail twisted around a shoulder of rock; ahead shone a patch of indigo heaven. One more turning, Guyal told himself. The defile fell open, the mountains were at his back and he looked out across a hundred miles of steppe. It was a l
a
nd shaded with subtle colors, washed with delicate shadows, fading and melting into the lurid haze at the horizon. He saw a lone eminence cloaked by a dark company of trees, the glisten of a lake at its foot. To the other side a ranked mass of gray-white 
ruins was barely discernible. The Museum of}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid12797010  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Man? ... After a moment of vacillation, Guyal dismounted and sought sleep within the Expansible Egg.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The sun rolled in sad sumptuous majesty behind the mountains; murk fell across the tundra. Guyal awoke and refre
shed himself in a rill nearby. Giving meal to his horse, he ate dry fruit and bread; then he mounted and rode down the trail. The plain spread vastly north before him, into desolation; the mountains lowered black above and behind; a slow cold breeze blew 
in his face. Gloom deepened; the plain sank from sight like a drowned land. Hesitant before the murk, Guyal reined his horse. Better, he thought, to ride in the morning. If he lost the trail in the dark, who could tell what he might encounter?}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 A mournful so
und. Guyal stiffened and turned his face to the sky. A sigh? A moan? A sob? . . . Another sound, closer, the rustle of cloth, a loose garment. Guyal cringed into his saddle. Floating slowly down through the darkness came a shape robed in white. Under the 
cowl and glowing with eer-light a drawn face with eyes like the holes in a skull.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 It breathed its sad sound and drifted away on high . . . There was only the blow of the wind past Guyal's ears.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
He drew a shuddering breath and slumped against the pommel. His shoulders felt exposed, naked. He slipped to the ground and established the shelter of the Egg about himself and his horse. Preparing his pallet, he lay himself down; presently, as he lay sta
ring into the dark, sleep came on him and so the night passed.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He awoke before dawn and once more set forth. The trail was a ribbon of white sand between banks of gray furze and the miles passed swiftly.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The trail led toward the three-clothed eminence Guyal
 had noted from above; now he thought to see roofs through the heavy foliage and smoke on the sharp air. And presently to right and left spread cultivated fields of spikenard, callow and mead-apple. Guyal continued with eyes watchful for men.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 To one side a
ppeared a fence of stone and black timber: the stone chiselled and hewn to the semblance of four globes beaded on a central pillar, the black timbers which served as rails fitted in sockets and carved in precise spirals. Behind this fence a region of bare
 earth lay churned, pitted, cratered, burnt and wrenched,}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid12797010  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
as if visited at once by fire and the blow of a tremendous hammer. In wondering speculation Guyal gazed and so did not notice the three men who came quietly upon him.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The horse started nervously; Guyal, turning, saw the three. They barred his road and one held the bridle of his horse.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 They were tall, well-formed men, wearing tight suits of somber leather bordered with black. Their headgear was heavy maroon cloth crumpled in precise creases, and leathe
r flaps extended horizontally over each ear. Their faces were long and solemn, with clear golden-ivory skin, golden eyes and jet-black hair. Clearly they were not savages: they moved with a silky control, they eyed Guyal with critical appraisal, their gar
b implied the discipline of an ancient convention.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The leader stepped forward. His expression was neither threat nor welcome. "Greetings, stranger; whither bound?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Greetings," replied Guyal cautiously. "I go as my star directs . . . You are the Saponids?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "That is our race, and before you is our town Saponce." He inspected Guyal with frank curiosity. "By the color of your custom I suspect your home to be in the south.}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid12797010 \'94}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I am Guyal of Sfere, by the river Scaum in Ascolais."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "The way is long," observed the Saponid. "Terrors beset the traveler. Your impulse must be most intense, and your star must draw with fervant allure."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I come," said Guyal, "on a pilgrimage for the ease of my spirit; the road seems short when it attains its end."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The Saponid offered polite acquiescen}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid12797010 ce. "Then you have crossed the F}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 er Aquilas?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Indeed; through cold wind and desolate stone." Guyal glance back at the looming mass. "Only yesterday at nightfall did I leave the gap. And then a ghost hovered abov
e till I thought the grave was marking me for its own."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He paused in surprise; his words seemed to have released a powerful emotion in the Saponids. Their fea}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid12797010 tures lengthened, their mouths grew white and clenched}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid7631617 .  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The leader, his polite detachment a trifle diminished, searched the sky with ill-concealed apprehension. "A ghost ... In a white garment, thus and so, floating on high?"}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Yes; is it a known familiar of the region?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 There was a pause.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "In a certain sense," said the Saponid. "It is a signal of woe ... But I interrupt your tale."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "There is little to tell. I took shelter for the night, and this morning I fared down to the plain."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Were you not molested further? By Koolbaw the Walking Serpent, who ranges the slopes like fate?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I saw neither walking serpent nor crawling lizard; further, a blessing protects my trail and I come to no harm so long as I keep my course."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Interesting, interesting."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Now," said Guyal, "permit me to inquire of you, since there is much I would learn; what is this ghost and what evil does he commemorate?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "You ask beyond my certain knowledge," replied the Saponid cautiously. "Of this ghost it is well not to speak lest our attention reinforce his malignity."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "As you will," replied Guyal. "Perhaps you will instruct me . . ." He cau
ght his tongue. Before inquiring for the Museum of Man, it would be wise to learn in what regard the Saponids held it, lest, learning his interest, they seek to prevent him from knowledge.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Yes?" inquired the Saponid. "What is your lack?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal indicated the seared area behind the fence of stone and timber. "What is the portent of this devastation?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The Saponid stared across the area with a blank expression and shrugged. "It is one of the ancient places; so much is known,
 no more. Death lingers here, and no creature may venture across the place without succumbing to a most malicious magic which raises virulence and angry sores. Here is where those whom we kill are sent . . . But away. You will desire to rest and refresh y
ourself at Saponce. Come; we will guide you."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He turned down the trail toward the town, and Guyal, finding neither words nor reasons to reject the idea, urged his horse forward.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid6366266\charrsid6366266 A}{\i\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 s }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 t}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid6366266 h}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 ey approac}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid6366266 hed}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid6366266 th}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 e }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid6366266 tree-shrouded hill the}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
 trail widened to a road. To the right hand the lake drew close, behind low banks of purple reeds. Here were docks built of heavy black baulks and boats rocked to the wind-feathered ripples. They were built in the shape of sickles, with bow and stern curv
ing high from the water.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
Up into the town, and the houses were hewn timber, ranging in tone from golden brown to weathered black. The construction was intricate and ornate, the walls rising three stories to steep gables overhanging front and back. Pillars a
nd piers were carved with complex designs: meshing ribbons, tendrils, leaves, lizards, and the like. The screens which guarded the windows were likewise carved, with foliage patterns, animal faces, radiant stars: rich textures in the mellow wood. It was c
lear that much expressiveness had been expended on the carving.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Up the steep lane, under the gloom cast by the trees, past the houses half-hidden by the foliage, and the Saponids of Saponce came north to stare. They moved quietly and spoke in low voices, an
d their garments were of an elegance Guyal had not expected to see on the northern steppe.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 His guide halted and turned to Guyal. "Will you oblige me by waiting till I report to the Voyevode, that he may prepare a suitable reception?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The request was framed
 in candid words and with guileless eyes. Guyal thought to perceive ambiguity in the phrasing, but since the hooves of his horse were planted in the center of the road, and since he did not propose leaving the road, Guyal assented with an open face. The S
aponid disappeared and Guyal sat musing on the pleasant town perched so high above the plain.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 A group of girls approached to glance at Guyal with curious eyes. Guyal returned the inspection, and now f}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid4590680 ound a puzzling lack about their}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  persons, a discrepancy w
hich he could not instantly identify. They wore graceful garments of woven wool, striped and dyed various colors; they were supple and slender, and seemed not lacking in coquetry. And yet. . .}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The Saponid returned. "Now, Sir Guyal, may we proceed?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal, 
endeavoring to remove any flavor of suspicion from his words, said, "You will understand, Sir Saponid, that by the very nature of my father's blessing I dare not leave the delineated course of the trail; for then, instantly, I would become liable to any c
urse, which, placed on me along the way, might be seeking just such occasion for leeching close on my soul."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The Saponid made an understanding gesture. "Naturally; you follow a sound principle. Let me reassure you. I but conduct you to a reception by the Vo
yevode who even now hastens to the plaza to greet a stranger from the far south."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal bowed in gratification, and they continued up the road.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 A hundred paces and the road levelled, crossing a common planted with small, fluttering, heart-shaped leaves colored in all shades of purple, red, green and black.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The Saponid turned to Guyal. "As a stranger I must caution you never to set foot on the common. It is one of our sacred places, and tradition requires that a severe penalty be exacted for transgressions a
nd sacrilege."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I note your warning," said Guyal. "I will respectfully obey your law."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 They passed a dense thicket; with hideous clamor a bestial sh}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid4590680 ape sprang from concealment, a}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  creature staring-eyed with tremendous }{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid4590680 fanged jaws. Guyal's horse shie}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 d, bolted, sprang out onto the sacred common and trampled the fluttering leaves.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 A number of Saponid men rushed forth, grasped the horse, seized Guyal and dragged him from the saddle.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Ho!" cried Guyal. "What means this? Release me!"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The Saponid who had been his guide advanced, shaking his head in reproach. "Indeed, and only had I just impressed upon you that gravity of such an offense!"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "But the monster frightened my horse!" said Guyal. "I am no wise responsible for this trespass; release me, let us proceed to the reception."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The Saponid said, "I fear that the penalties prescribed by tradition must come into effect. Your protests, though of superficial plausibility, will not bear ser}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid4590680 
ious examination. For instance,}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  the creature you term a monster}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid4590680  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 is in reality a har
mless domesticated beast. Secondly, I observe the animal you bestride; he will not make a turn or twist without the twitch of the reins. Thirdly, even if your postulates were conceded, you thereby admit to guilt by virtue of negligence and omission. You s
hould have secured a mount less apt to unpredictable action, or upon learning of the sanctitude of the common, you should have considered such a contingency as even now occurred, and therefore dismounted, leading your beast}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid4590680 .
}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  Therefore, Sir Guyal, though loa
th, I am forced to believe you guilty of impertinence, impiety, disregard and impudicity. Therefore, as Castellan and Sergeant-Reader of the Litany, so responsible for the detention of lawbreakers, I must order you secured, contained, pent, incarcerated a
nd confined until such time as the penalties will be exacted."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "The entire episode is mockery!" raged Guyal. "Are you savages, then, thus to mistreat a lone wayfarer?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "By no means," replied the Castellan. "We are a highly civilized people, with customs beq
ueathed us by the past. Since the past was more glorious than the present, what presumption we would show by questioning these }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid16330329 laws!}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal fell quiet. "And what are the usual penalties for my act?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The Castellan made a reassuring motion. "The rote prescribes three acts of penance, which in your case, I am sure will be nominal. But\emdash 
the forms must be observed, and it is necessary that you be constrained in the Felon's Caseboard." He motioned to the men
 who held Guyal's arm. "Away with him; cross neither track nor trail, for then your grasp will be nerveless and he will be delivered from justice."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal was pent in a well-aired but poorly lighted cellar of stone. The floor he found dry, the ceiling free 
of crawling insects. He had not been searched, nor had his Scintillant Dagger been removed from his sash. With suspicious crowding his brain he lay on the rush bed and, after a period, slept.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Now ensued the passing of a day. He was given food and drink; and at last the Castellan came to visit him.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "You are indeed fortunate," said the Saponid, "in that, as a witness, I was able to suggest your delinquencies}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid4590680  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
to be more the result of negligence than malice. The last penalties exacted for the crime were stringe
nt; the felon was ordered to perform the following three acts: first, to cut off his toes and sew the severed members into the skin at his neck; second, to revile his forbears for three hours, commencing with a Common Bill of Anathema, including feigned m
adness and hereditary disease, and at last defiling the hearth of his clan with ordure; and third, walking a mile under the lake with leaded shoes in search of the Lost Book of Kells." And the Castellan regarded Guyal with complacency.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "What deeds must I perform?" inquired Guyal drily.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The Castellan joined the tips of his fingers together. "As I say, the penances are nominal, by decree of the Voyevode. First you must swear never again to repeat your crime."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "That I gladly do," said Guyal, and so bound himself.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Second," said the Castellan with a slight smile, "you must adjudicate at a Grand Pageant of Pulchritude among the maids of the village and select her whom you deem the most beautiful."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Scarcely an arduous task," commented Guyal. "Why does it fall to my lot?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The Castellan looked vaguely to the ceiling. "There are a number of concomitants to victory in this contest . . . Every person in the town would find relations among the participant\emdash 
a daughter, a sister, a niece\emdash and so would hardly be considered unprejudiced. The charge of favoritism could never be levelled against you; therefore you make an ideal selection for this important post."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal seemed to hear the ring of sincerity in the Saponid's voice; still he wondered why the selection of the town's loveliest was a matter of such import.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "And third?" he inquired.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "That will be revealed after the contest, which occurs this afternoon."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The Saponid departed the cell.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal, who was not without vanity, spent several hours restoring him
self and his costume from the ravages of travel. He bathed, trimmed his hair, shaved his face, and, when the Castellan came to unlock the door, he felt that he made no discreditable picture.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He was led out upon the road and directed up the hill toward the 
summit of the terraced town of Saponce. Turning to the Castellan he said, "How is it that you permit me to walk the trail once more? You must know that now I am safe from molestation ..."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The Castellan shrugged. "True. But you would gain little by insistin
g upon your temporary immunity. Ahead the trail crosses a bridge, which we could demolish; behind we need but breach the dam to Peilvemchal Torrent; then, should you walk the trail, you would be swept to the side and so rendered vulnerable. No, sir Guyal 
o
f Sfere, once the secret of your immunity is abroad then you are liable to a variety of stratagems. For instance, a large wall might be placed athwart the way, before and behind you. No doubt the spell would preserve you from thirst and hunger, but what t
hen? So would you sit till the sun went out."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal said no word. Across the lake he noticed a trio of the crescent boats approaching the docks, prows and sterns rocking and dipping into the shaded water with a graceful motion. The void in his mind made }{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid4590680 itself}{\i\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 , }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 known. "Why are boats constructed in such fashion?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The Castellan looked blankly at him. "It is the only practicable method. Do not the oe-pods grow thusly to the south?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Never have I seen oe-pods."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "They are the fruit of a great vine, and grow in sc
imitar-shape. When sufficiently large, we cut and clean them, slit the inner edge, grapple end to end with strong line and constrict till the pod opens as is desirable. Then when cured, dried, varnished, carved, burnished, and lacquered; fitted with deck,
 thwarts and gussets\emdash then have we our boats."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
They entered the plaza, a flat area at the summit surrounded on three sides by tall houses of carved dark wood. The fourth side was open to a vista across the lake and beyond to the loom of the mountains. Trees 
overhung all and the sun shining through made a scarlet pattern on the sandy floor.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 To Guyal's surprise there seemed to be no preliminary ceremonies or formalities to the contest, and small spirit of festivity was manifest among the townspeople. Indeed the
y seemed beset by subdued despondency and eyed }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid14305911 him}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  without enthusiasm.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
A hundred girls stood gathered in a disconsolate group in the center of the plaza. It seemed to Guyal that they had gone to few pains to embellish themselves for beauty. To the contrary, they wore shapeless rags, their hair seemed deliberately misarranged
, their faces dirty and scowling.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal stared and turned to his guide. "These girls seem not to re}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid14305911 lish the garland of pulchritude.}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The Castellan nodded wryly. "As you see, they are by no means jealous for distinction; modesty has always been a Saponid trait."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal hesitated. "What is the form of procedure? I do not desire in my ignorance to violate another of your arcane apochrypha."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The Castellan said with a blank face, "There are no formalities. We conduct these pageants with expedition and the least po
ssible ceremony. You need but pass among these maidens and point out her whom you deem the most attractive."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal advanced to his task, feeling more than half-foolish. The}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid14305911 n}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
 he reflected: this is a penalty for contravening an absurd tradition; I will conduct myself with efficiency and so the quicker rid myself of the obligation.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He stood before the hundred girls, who eyed him with hostility and anxiety, and Guyal saw that his task would not be simple, since, on the whole, they were of a comeliness which eve
n the dirt, grimacing and rags could not disguise.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Range yourselves, if you please, into a line," said Guyal. "In this way, none will be at disadvantage."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Sullenly the girls formed a line.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal surveyed the group. He saw at once that a number could be eliminated: the squat, the obese, the lean, the pocked and coarse-featured\emdash 
perhaps a quarter of the group. He said suavely, "Never have I seen such unanimous loveliness; each of you might legi
timately claim the cordon. My task is arduous; I must weigh fine imponderables; in the end my choice will undoubtedly be based on subjectivity and those of real charm will no doubt be the first discharged from the competition." He stepped forward. "Those 
whom I indicate may retire."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He walked down the line, pointed, and the ugliest, with}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid14305911  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 expressions of unmistakable relief, hastened to the sidelines.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 A second time Guyal made his inspection, and now, somewhat more familiar with those he judged, he was able to discharge those who, while suffering no whit from ugliness, were merely plain.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Roughly a third of the original group remained. These stared at Guyal with varying degrees of apprehension and truculence as he passed before them, studying each in turn . . . 
All at once his mind was determined, and his choice definite. Somehow the girls felt the change in him, and in their anxiety and tension left off the expressions they had been wearing to daunt and bemuse him.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal made one last survey down the line. No, h
e had been accurate in his choice. There were girls here as comely as the senses could desire, girls with opal-glowing eyes and hyacinth features, girls as lissome as reeds, with hair silky and fine despite the dust which they seemed to have rubbed upon .
themselves.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
The girl whom Guyal had selected was slighter than the others and possessed of a beauty not at once obvious. She had a small triangular face, great wistful eyes and thick black hair cut raggedly short at the ears. Her skin was of a transparent p
aleness, like the finest ivory; her form slender, graceful, and of a compelling magnetism, urgent of intimacy. She seemed to have sensed his decision and her eyes widened.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal took her hand, led her forward, and turned to the Voyevode\emdash an old man sitting stolidly in a heavy chair.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "This is she whom I find the loveliest among your maidens."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 There was silence through the square. Then there came a hoarse sound, a cry of sadness from the Castellan and Sergeant-Reader. He came forward, sagging of face, limp of 
body. "Guyal of Sfere, you have wrought a great revenge for my tricking you. This is my beloved daughter, Shierl, whom you have designated for dread."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal turned in wonderment from the Castellan to the girl Shierl, in whose eyes he now recognized a }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid14305911 fil}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 m 
of numbness, a gazing into a great depth.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Returning to the Castellan, Guyal stammered, "I meant but complete impersonality. This your daughter Shierl I}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid14305911  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
find one of the loveliest creatures of my experience; I cannot understand where I have offended."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "No, Guyal," said the Castellan, "you have chosen fairly, for such indeed is my own thought."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid14305911 "Well}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 , then," said Guyal, "reveal to me now my third task that I may have done and continue my pilgrimage."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The Castellan said, "Three leagues to the north lies the ruin which tradition tells us to be the olden Museum of Man.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Ah," said Guyal, "go on, I attend."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "You must, as your third charge, conduct this my daughter Shierl to the Museum of Man. At the portal you will strike on a copper gong and announce to whomever responds: 'We are those summoned from Saponce}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid10954185 \rquote .\'94}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal started, frowned. "How is this? 'We'?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Such is your charge," said the Castellan in a voice like thunder.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal looked to left, right, forward and behind. But he stood in the center of the plaza surrounded by the hardy men of Saponce.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "When must this charge be executed?" he inquired in a controlled voice.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The Castellan said in a voice bitter as oak-wort: "Even now Shierl goes to clothe herself in yellow. In one hour shall she appear, in one hour shall you set forth for the Museum of Man."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "And then?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "And then\emdash for good or for evil, it is not known. You fare as thirteen thousand have fared before you."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Down from the plaza, down the leafy lanes of Saponce came Guyal, indignant and clamped of mouth, though the pit of his stomach felt tender and heavy with trepidation. The ritual carried }{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid7740987\charrsid993056 distasteful}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  overtones: execution or sacrifice. Guyal's step faltered.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The Castellan seized his elbow with a hard hand. "Forward."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
Execution or sacrifice . . . The faces along the lane swam with morbid curiosity, inner excitement; gloating eyes searched him deep to relish his fear and horror, and the mouths half-drooped, half-smiled in the inner hugging for joy not to
 be the one walking down the foliage streets, and forth to the Museum of Man.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The eminence, with the tall trees and carved dark houses, was at his back; they walked out into the claret sunlight of the tundra. Here were eighty women in white chlamys with ce
remonial buckets of woven straw over their heads; around a tall tent of yellow silk they stood.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The Castellan halted Guyal and beckoned to the Ritual Matron. Sh}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid225670 e flung back the hangings at th}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
e door of the tent; the girl within, Shierl, came slowly forth, eyes wide and dark with fright.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She wore a stiff gown of yellow brocade, and the wan of her body seemed pent and constrained within. The gown came snug under her chin, 
left her arms bare and raised past the back of her head in a stiff spear-headed cowl. She was frightened as a small animal trapped is frightened; she stared at Guyal, at her father, as if she had never seen them before.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The Ritual Matron put a gentle hand 
on her waist, propelled her forward. Shierl stepped once, twice, irresolutely halted. The Castellan brought Guyal forward and placed him at the girl's side; now two children, a boy and a girl, came hastening up with cups which they, proffered to Guyal and
 Shierl. Dully she accepted the cup. Guyal took his and glanced suspiciously at the murky brew. He looked up to the Castellan. "What is the nature of this potion?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Drink," said the Castellan. "So will your way seem the shorter; so will terror leave you behind, and you will march to the Museum with a steadier step."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "No," said Guyal. "I will not drink. My senses must be my own when I meet the Curator. I have come far for the privilege; I would not stultify the occasion stumbling and staggering." And he hande
d the cup back to the boy.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Shierl stared dully at the cup she held. Said Guyal: "I advise you likewise to avoid the drug; so will we come to the Museum of Man with our dignity to us."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Hesitantly she returned the cup. The Castellan's brow clouded, but he made no protest.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
An old man in a black costume brought forward a satin pillow on which rested a whip with a handle of carved steel. The Castellan now lifted this whip, and advancing, laid three light strokes across the shoulders of both Shierl and Guyal.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Now, I charge thee, get hence and go from Saponce, outlawed forever; thou art waifs forlorn. Seek succor at}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid225670  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 the Museum of Man.}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid225670  I charge thee, never look back}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 , leave all thoughts of past and future here at North Garden. Now and forever are you sundered from a
ll bonds, claims, relations, and kinships, together with all pretenses to amity, love, fellowship and brotherhood with the Saponids of Saponce. Go, I exhort; go, I command; g}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid2703296 o, go, go,!}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Shierl sunk her teeth into her lower lip; tears freely coursed her cheek though she made no sound. With hanging head she started across the lichen of the tundra, and Guyal, with a swift stride, joined her.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Now there was no looking back. For a space the murmurs, the nervous sounds followed their ears; then they were alone on
 the plain. The limitless north lay across the horizon; the tundra filled the foreground and background, an expanse dreary, dun and moribund. Alone marring the region, the white ruins\emdash once the Museum of Man\emdash 
rose a league before them, and along the faint trail they walked without words.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal said in a tentative tone, "There is much I would understand."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Speak," said Shierl. Her voice was low but composed.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Why are we forced and exhorted to this mission?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "It is thus because it has always been thus. Is not this reason enough?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
"Sufficient possibly for you," said Guyal, "but for me the causality is unconvincing. I must acquaint you with the avoid in my mind, which lusts for knowledge as a lecher yearns for carnality; so pray be patient if my }{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid7740987\charrsid993056 inquisition}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  seems unnecessarily thorough."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She glanced at him}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid13635587  in }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 astonishment. "Are all to the south so strong for knowing as you?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "In no degree," said Guyal. "Everywhere normality of the mind
 may be observed. The habitants adroitly perform the motions which fed them yesterday, last week, a year ago. I have been informed of my aberration well and full. 'Why strive for a pedant's accumulation?' I have been told. 'Why seek and search? Earth grow
s cold; man gasps his last; why forego merriment, music, and revelry for the abstract and abstruse?'"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Indeed," said Shierl. "Well do they counsel; such is the consensus at Saponce."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal shrugged. "The rumor goes that I am demon-bereft of my senses. Such may be. In any event the effect remains, and the obsession haunts me."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Shierl indicated unders}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid2703296 ta}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 nding and acquiescence. "Ask on then; I will endeavor to ease these yearnings."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He glanced at her sidelong, studied the charming triangle of her face, the heavy
 black hair, the great lustrous eyes, dark as yu-sapphires. "In happier circumstances, there would be other yearnings I would beseech you likewise to ease."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Ask," replied Shierl of Saponce. "The Museum of Man is close; there is occasion for naught but words."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Why are we thus dismissed and charged, with tacit acceptance of our doom?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "The immediate cause is the ghost you saw on the hill. When the ghost appears, then we of Saponce know that the most beautiful maiden and the most handsome youth of the town m
ust be despatched to the Museum. The prime behind the custom I do not know. So it is; so it has been; so it will be till the sun gutters like a coal in the rain and darkens Earth, and the winds blow snow over Saponce."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "But what is our mission? Who greets us, what is our fate?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Such details are unknown."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal mused, "The likelihood of pleasure seems small . . . There are discordants }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid2703296 in}{\i\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  }{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 the episode. You are beyond doubt the loveliest creature of the Saponids, the loveliest creature of Earth\emdash but I, I am a casual stranger, and hardly the most well-favored youth of the town."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She smiled a trifle. "You are not uncomely."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal said somberly, "Over-riding the condition of my person is the fact that I am a stranger and so bring little loss to the town of Saponce."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "That aspect has no doubt been considered," the girl said.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal searched the horizon. "Let us then avoid the Mu
seum of Man, let us circumvent this unknown fate and take to the mountains, and so south to Ascolais. Lust for enlightenment will never fly me in the face of destruction so clearly implicit."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She shook her head. "Do you suppose that we would gain by the ruse? The eyes of a hundred warriors follow us till we pass through the portals of the Museum; should}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid2703296  }{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 we attempt to scamp our duty we should be bound to stakes, stripped of our skins by the inch, and at last be placed in bags with a thousand scorpions poured
 around our heads. Such is the traditional penalty; twelve times in history has it been invoked."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal threw back his shoulders and spoke in a nervous voice. "Ah, well\emdash the Museum of Man has been my goal for many years. On this motive I set forth from Sfer
e, so now I would seek the Curator and satisfy my obsession for brain-filling."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "You are blessed with great fortune," said Shierl, "for you are being granted your heart's desire."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal could find nothing to say, so for a space they walked in silence. Then he spoke. "Shierl."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Yes, Guyal of Sfere?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Do they separate us and take us apart?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I do not know."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Shierl."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Yes?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Had we met under a happier star ..." He paused.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Shierl walked in silence.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He looked at her coolly. "You speak not."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "But you ask nothing," she said in surprise.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal turned his face ahead, to the Museum of Man.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Presently she touched his arm. "Guyal, I am greatly frightened."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal gazed at the ground beneath his feet, and a blossom of fire sprang alive in his brain. "See the marking through the licken?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Yes; what then?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Is it a trail?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Dubiously she responded, "It is a way worn by the passage of many feet. So then\emdash it is a trail."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal said in restrained jubilation, "Here is safety, if I never permit myself to be cozened from the way. But you\emdash 
ah, I must guard you; you must never leave my side, you must swim in the charm which protects me; perhaps then we will survive."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Shierl said sadly, "Let us not delude our reason, Guyal of Sfere."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 But as they walked, the trail grew plainer, and Guyal became correspondingly sanguine. And ever larger}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid2703296  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
bluked the crumble which marked the Museum of Man, presently to occupy all their vision.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 If a storehouse of knowledge had existed here, little sign of it remained. There was a great flat 
floor, flagged in white stone, now chalky, broken and inter-thrust by weeds. Around this floor rose a series of monoliths, pocked and worn, and toppled off at various heights. These at one time had supported a vast roof; now of roof there was none and the
 walls were but dreams of the far past.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
So here was the flat floor bounded by the broken stumps of pillars, bare to the winds of time and the glare of cool red sun. The rains had washed the marble, the dust from the mountains had been laid on and swept off,
 laid on and swept off, and those who had built the Museum were less than a mote of this dust, so far and forgotten were they.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Think," said Guyal, "think of the vastness of knowledge which once was gathered here and which is now one with the soil\emdash unless, of course, the Curator has salvaged and preserved."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Shierl looked about apprehensively. "I think rather of the portal, and that which awaits us ... Guyal," she
 whispered, "I fear, I fear greatly . . . Suppose they tear us apart? Suppose there is torture and death for us? I fear a tremendous impingement, the shock of horror . . ."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal's own throat was hot and full. He looked about with challenge. "While I still breathe and hold power in my arms to fight, there will be none to harm us."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Shierl groaned softly. "Guyal, Guyal, Guyal of Sfere \emdash why did you choose me?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Because," said Guyal, "my eyes went to you like the nectar moth flits to the jacynth; because you were the loveliest and I thought nothing but good in store for you."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 With a shuddering breath Shierl said, "I must be courageous; after all, if it were not I it would be some other maid equally fearful... And there is the portal."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal inhaled deeply, inclined his head, and strode forward. "Let us be to it, and know ..."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The portal opened into a nearby monolith, a door of flat black metal. Guyal followed the trail to the door, and rapped staunchly with his fist on the small copper gong to the side.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The door groaned wide on its hinges, and cool air, smelling of the under-earth, billowed forth. In the black gape their eyes could find nothing.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Hola within!" cried Guyal.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 A soft voice, full of catches and quavers, as if just after weeping, said, "Come ye, come ye forward. You are desired and awaited."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal leaned his head forward, straining to see. "Give us light, that we may not wander from the trail and bottom ourselves."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The breathless quaver of a voice said, "Light is not needed; anywhere you step, that will be your trail, by an arrangement so agreed with the Way-Maker."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "No," said Guyal, "we would see the visage of our host. We come at his invitation; the minimum of his guest-offering is light; light there must be before we set foot inside the dungeon. Know w
e come as seekers after knowledge; we are visitors to be honored."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid7740987\charrsid993056 "Ah, knowledge, }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid7740987 knowledge," came the sad breath}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid7740987\charrsid993056 lessness. }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
"That shall be yours, in full plentitude\emdash knowledge of}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid2703296  many strange affairs; oh, you }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 shall swim in a tide of knowledge\emdash "}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal interrupted the sad, sighing voice. "Are you the Curator? Hundreds of leagues have I come to bespeak the Curator and put him my inquiries. Are you he?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "By no means. I revile the name of the Curator as a }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid7740987\charrsid993056 treacherous}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  non-essential." .}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Who then may you be?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I am no one, nothing. I am }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid2703296 an abstraction, an emotion, the }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
ooze of terror, the sweat of horror, the shake in the air when a scream has departed."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "You speak the voice of man."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Why not? Such things as I speak lie in the closest and dearest center of the human brain."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal said in a subdued voice, "You do not make your invitation as enticing as might be hoped."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "No matter, no matter; enter you must, into the dark and on the instant, as my lord, who is myself, waxes warm and languorous."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "If light there be, we enter."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "No light, no insolent scorch is ever found in the Museum."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "In this case," said Guyal, drawing forth his Scintilla}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid2703296 nt}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid2703296 D}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 agger,  "1 innovate  a  welcome reform.  For  see, now there is light!"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 From the under-pommel issued a searching glare; the ghost tall before them screeched and fell into twinkling ribbons like pulverized tinsel. There were a few vagrant motes in the air; he was gone.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Shierl, who had stood stark and stiff as one mesmerized, gasped a soft warm gasp and fell against Guyal. "How can you be so defiant?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
Guyal said in a voice half-laugh, half-quaver, "In truth I do not know . . . Perhaps I find it incredible that the Norns would direct me from pleasant Sfere, through forest and crag, into the northern waste, merely to play the 
role of cringing victim. Disbelieving so inconclusive a destiny, I am bold."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He moved the dagger to right and left, and they saw themselves to be at the portal of a keep, cut from concreted rock. At the back opened a black depth. Crossing the floor swiftly, Guyal kneeled and listened.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He heard no sound. Shierl, at h}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid3804908 is back, stared with eyes as bla}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
ck and deep as the pit itself, and Guyal, turning, received a sudden irrational impression of a sprite of the olden times\emdash  a creature small and delicate, heavy with the weight of her charm, pale, sweet, clean.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Leaning with his glowing dagger, he saw a crazy rack of stairs voyaging down into the dark, and his light showed them an}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid3804908 d their shadows in so confusing}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  a guise that he blinked and drew back.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Shierl said, "What do you fear?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal rose, turned to her. "We are momentarily untended here i
n the Museum of Man, and we are impelled forward by various forces; you by the will of your people; I by that which has driven me since I first tasted air ... If we stay here we shall be once more arranged in harmony with the hostile pattern. If we go for
ward boldly, we may so come to a position of strategy and advantage. I propose that we set forth in all courage, descend these stairs and seek the Curator."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "But does he exist?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "The ghost spoke fervently against him."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Let us go then," said Shierl. "I am resigned."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal said gravely, "We go in the mental frame of adventure, aggressiveness, zeal. Thus does fear vanish}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid3804908  and the ghosts become creatures of mind-weft;  thus does our }{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 elan burst the under-earth terror."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "We go."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 They started down the stairs.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
Back, forth, back, forth, down flights at varying angles, stages of varying heights, treads at varying widths, so that each step was a matter for concentration. Back, forth, down, down, down, and the black-barred shadows }{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid7740987\charrsid993056 moved}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  and jerked in bizarre modes on the walls.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The flight ended, they stood}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid13635587  in }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
a room similar to the entry above. Before them was another black portal, polished at one spot by use; on the walls to either side were inset brass plaques bearing messages in unfamiliar characters.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid11416625 Guyal pushed the door open }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 against a slight pressure of cold air, which, blowing through the aperture, made a slight rush, ceasing when Guyal opened the door farther.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Listen."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 It was a far sound, an intermittent clacking, and it held enough fell significance to raise the hairs at Guyal's neck. He felt Shierl's hand gripping his with clammy pressure.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Dimming the dagger's glow to a glimmer, Guyal passed through the door, with Shierl coming after. From afar came the evil sound, and by the echoes they knew they stood in a great hall.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
Guyal directed the light to the floor: it was of a black resilient material. Next the wall: polished stone. He permitted the light to glow in the direction opposite to the sound, and a few paces distant they saw
 a bulky black case, studded with copper bosses, topped by a shallow glass tray in which could be seen an intricate concourse of metal devices.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 With the purpose of the black cases not apparent, they followed the wall, and as they walked similar cases appea
red, looming heavy and dull, at regular intervals. The clacking receded as they walked; then they came at a right angle, and turning the corner, they seemed to approach the sound. Black case after black case passed; slowly, tense as foxes, they walked, ey
es groping for sight through the darkness.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid11416625 The wall made another angle, and here there was a door.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal hesitated. To follow the new direction of the wall would mean approaching the source of the sound. Would it be better to discover the worst quickly or to reconnoitre as they went?}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He propounded the dilemma to Shierl, who shrugged, "It is all one; sooner or later the ghosts will flit down to pluck at us; then we are lost."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Not while I possess light to stare them away to wisps and shreds," said Guyal. "Now I would find the Curator, and possibly he is to be found behind this door. We will so discover."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He laid his shoulder to the door; it eased ajar with a crack of golden light. Guyal peered through. He sighed, a muffled sound of wonder.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Now he opened the door further; Shierl clutched at his arm.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "This is the Museum," said Guyal in rapt tone. "Here there is no danger . . . He who dwells in beauty of this sort may never be other than beneficient . . ." He flung wide the door.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The light came from an unknown sou
rce, from the air itself, as if leaking from the discrete atoms; every breath was luminous, the room floated full of invigorating glow. A great rug pelted the floor, a monster tabard woven of gold, brown, bronze, two tones of green, fuscous red and smalt 
blue. Beautiful works of human fashioning ranked the walls. In glorious array hung panels of rich woods, carved, chased, enameled; scenes of olden times painted on woven fiber; formulas of colo}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid8922688 r, designed to convey emotion r
}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 ather than reality. To one side hung plats of wood laid on with slabs of soapstone, malachite and jade in rectangular patterns, richly varied and subtle, with mini}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid8922688 
ature flecks of cinnabar, rhodo}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 crosite and coral for warmth. Beside was a section given to di
sks of luminous green, flickering and flourescent with varying blue films and moving dots of scarlet and black. Here were representations of three hundred ma}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid8922688 rvelous flowers, blooms of a for}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 gotten age, no longer extant on waning Earth; there were as many star-burst patterns, rigidly conventionalized in form, but each of}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid8922688  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
subtle distinction. }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid8922688   All these and a multitude of other}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  creations, selected from the best of human fervor.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The door thudded softly behind them; staring, every inch of skin a-tingle, the two from Earth's final time moved forward through the hall.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Somewhere near must be the Curator," whispered Guyal. "There is a sense of careful tending and great effort here in the gallery."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Look."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Opposite were two doors, laden with the sense of much use. Guyal strode quickly across the room but was unable to discern the means for opening the door, for it bore no latch, key, handle, k}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid8922688 nob or bar. He rapped with his k}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 nuckles and waited; no sound returned.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Shierl tugged at his arm. "These are private regions. It is best not to venture too rudely."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal turned away and they continued down the gallery. Past the real expr}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid8922688 ession of man's brightest dream}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
ings they walked, until the concentration of so much f
ire and spirit and creativity put them into awe. "What great minds lie in the dust," said Guyal in a low voice "What gorgeous souls have vanished into the buried ages; what marvelous creatures are lost past the remotest memory . . . Nevermore will there b
e the like; now, in the last fleeting moments, huma}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid8922688 nity festers rich as rotten frui}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 t. Rather than master and overpower our world, our highest aim is to cheat it through sorcery."}
{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Shierl said, "But you, Guyal\emdash you are apart. You are not like this ..."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I woul
d know," declared Guyal with fierce emphasis. "In all my youth this ache has driven me, and I have journeyed from the old manse at Sfere to learn from the Curator ... I am dissatisfied with the mindless accomplishments of the magicians, who have all their
 lore by rote."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Shierl gazed at }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid8922688 him with a marveling expression}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
, and Guyal's soul throbbed with love. She felt him quiver and whispered recklessly, "Guyal of Sfere, I am yours, I melt for you..."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "When we win to peace," said Guyal, "then our world will be of gladness ..."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The room turned a corner,  widened.  And now  the}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid8922688  clacking sound they had noticed in the dark}{\i\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  }{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 outer hall returned, louder, more suggestive of unpleasantness. It seemed to enter the gallery through an arched doorway opposite.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal moved quietly to this door, with Shierl at his heels, and so they peered into the next chamber.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 A great face looked from the wall, a face taller than Guyal, as tall as Guyal might reach with hands on high. The chin rested on the floor, the scalp slanted back into the panel.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal stared, taken aback. In this }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid7740987\charrsid993056 pageant}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
 of beautiful objects the grotesque visage was the disparity and dissonance a lunatic might have created. Ugly and vile was the face, of a gut-wrenching silly obscenity. The skin shone a gun-metal sheen, 
the eyes gazed dully from slanting folds of greenish tissue. The nose was a small lump, the mouth a gross pulpy slash.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 In sudden }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid7740987\charrsid993056 uncertainty}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
 Guyal turned to Shierl. "Does this not seem an odd work so to be honored here in the Museum of Man?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Shierl was staring with eyes agonized and wide. Her mouth opened, quivered, wetness streaked her chin. With hands jerking, shaking, she grabbed his arm, staggered back into the gallery.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Guyal," she cried, "Guyal, come away!" Her voice rose to a pitch. "Come away, come away!"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He faced her in surprise. "What are you saying?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 'That horrible thing in there\emdash "}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "It is but the diseased effort of an elder artist."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "It lives."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "How is this!"}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid8922688 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid8922688\charrsid993056  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "It lives!" she babbled. "It looked at me, then turned and looked at you. And it moved\emdash and then I pulled you away..."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal shrugged off her hand; in stark disbelief he faced through the doorway.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Ahhhh ..." breathed Guyal.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The face had changed. The torpor had evaporated; the glaze had departed the eye. The mouth squirmed; a hiss of escaping
 gas sounded. The mouth opened; a great gray tongue lolled forth. And from this tongue darted a tendril slimed with mucus. It terminated in a grasping hand, which groped for Guyal's ankle. He}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid8922688  }{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 jumped aside; the hand missed its clutch, the tendril coiled.}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid8922688 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Gu
yal, in an extremity, with his bowels clenched by sick fear, sprang back into the gallery. The hand seized Shierl, grasped her ankle. The eyes glistened; and now the flabby tongue swelled another wen, sprouted a new member . . . Shierl stumbled, fell limp
, her eyes staring, foam at her lips. Guyal, shouting in a voice he could not hear, shouti}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid8922688 ng high and crazy, ran forward }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
slashing with his dagger. He cut at the gray wrist, but his knife sprang away as if the steel itself were horrified. His gorge at his teeth, he seized the tendril; with a mighty effort he broke it against his knee.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The face winced, the tendril jerked back. Guyal leapt forward, dragged Shierl into the gallery, lifted her, carried her back, out of reach.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Through the doorway now, Guyal glared
 in hate and fear. The mouth had closed; it sneered disappointment and frustrated lust. And now Guyal saw a strange thing: from the dank nostril oozed a wisp of white which swirled, writhed, formed a tall thing in a white robe\emdash 
 a thing with a draw face and eyes like holes in a skull. Whimpering and mewing}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid13635587  in }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
distaste for the light, it wavered forward into the gallery, moving with curious little pauses and hesitancies.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
Guyal stood still. Fear had exceeded its power; fear no longer had meaning. A brain could react only to the maximum of its intensity; how , could this thing harm him now? He would smash it with his hands, beat it into sighing fog.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Hold, hold, hold!" came 
a new voice. "Hold, hold, hold. My charms and tokens, an ill day for Thorsingol . . . But then, avaunt, you ghost, back to the orifice, back and avaunt, avaunt, I say! Go, else I loose the actinics; trespass is not allowed, by supreme command from the Lyc
urgat; aye, the Lycurgat of Thorsingol. Avaunt, so then."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The ghost wavered, paused, staring }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid8922688 in}{\i\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
fell passivity at the old man who had hobbled into the gallery.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Back to the snoring face wandered the ghost, and let itself be sucked up into the nostril.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The face rumbled behind its lips, then opened the great gray gape and belched a white fiery lick that}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid8922688  was lik}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
e name but not flame. It sheeted, flapped at the old man, who moved not an inch. From a rod fixed high on the door frame came a whirling disk of golden s
parks. It cut and dismembered the white sheet, destroyed it back to the mouth of the face, whence now issued a black bar. This bar edged into the whirling disk and absorbed the sparks. There was an instant of dead silence.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
Then the old man crowed, "Ah, you evil episode; you seek to interrupt my tenure. But no, there is no validity in you purpose; my clever baton holds your unnatural sorcery in abeyance; you are as naught; why do you not disengage and retreat into Jeldred?"}
{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 T
he rumble behind the large lips continued. The mouth opened wide: a gray viscous cavern was so displayed. The eyes glittered in titantic emotion. The mouth yelled, a roaring wave of violence, a sound to buffet the head and drive shock like a nail into the
 mind.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
The baton sprayed a mist of silver. The sound curved and centralized and sucked into the metal fog; the sound was captured and consumed; it was never heard. The fog balled, lengthened to an arrow, plunged with intense speed at the nose, and buried it
self in the pulp. There was a heavy sound, an explosion; the face seethed in pain and the nose was a blasted clutter of shredded gray plasms. They waved like starfish arms and grew together once more, and now the nose was pointed like a cone.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The old man said, "You are captious today, my demoniac visitant\emdash 
a vicious trait. You would disturb poor old Kerlin in his duties? So. You are ingenuous and neglectful. So ho. Baton," and he turned and peered at the rod, "you have tasted that sound? Spew out a fitting p
enalty, smear the odious face with your infallible retort"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 A flat sound, a black flail which curled, slapped the air and smote home to the face. A glowing weal sprang into being. The face sighed and the eyes twisted up into their folds of greenish tissue.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Kerlin the Curator laughed, a shrill yammer on a single tone. He stopped short and the laugh vanished as if it had never begun. He turned to Guyal and Shierl, who stood pressed together in the door-frame.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "How now, how now? You are after the gong; the study hours are long ended. Why do you linger?" He shook a stern finger. "The Museum is not the site for roguery; this I admonish. So now be off, home to Thorsin}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid328033 gol; be more prompt the next tim}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 e; you disturb the established order . . ." He paused and threw a f
retful glance over his shoulder. "The day has gone ill; the Nocturnal Key-keeper is inexcusably late . . . Surely I have waited an hour on the sluggard; the Lycurgat shall be so informed. I would be home to couch and hearth; here is ill use for old Kerlin
, thus to detain }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid328033 him}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
 for the careless retard of the night-watch . . . And, further, the encroachment of you two laggards; away now, and be off; out into the twilight!" And he advanced, making directive motions with his hands.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal said, "My lord Curator, I must speak words with you."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
The old man halted, peered. "Eh? What now? At the end of a long day's effort? No, no, you are out of order; regulation must be observed. Attend my audiarium at the fourth circuit tomorrow morning; then we shall hear you. So go now, go."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal fell back nonplussed. Shierl fell on her knees. "Sir Curator, we beg you for help; we have no place to go."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Kerlin the Curator looked at her blankly. "No place to go! What folly you utter! Go }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid328033 to your domicile, or to the Pub}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 escentarium, or t
o the Temple}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid328033 , or to the Outward Inn. For-}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 sooth, Thorsingol is free with lodging; the Museum is no casual tavern."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "My lor}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid328033 d," cried Guyal desperately, "wi}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 ll you hear me? We speak from emergency."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Say on then."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Some malignancy has bewitched your brain. Will you credit this?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Ah, indeed?" ruminated the Curator.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "There is no Thorsingol. There is naught but dark waste. Your city is an eon gone."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The Curator smiled benevolently. "Ah, sad ... A sad case. So it is with these younger minds. The frantic drive of l
ife is the Prime Unhinger." He shook his head. "My duty is clear. Tired bones, you must wait your well-deserved rest. Fatigue\emdash 
begone; duty and simple humanity make demands; here is madness to be countered and cleared. And in any event the Nocturnal Key-keeper is not here to relieve me of my tedium." He beckoned. "Come."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Hesitantly Guyal and Shierl followed him. He }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid7740987\charrsid993056 opened}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
 one of his doors, passed through muttering and expostulating with doubt and watchfulness, Guyal and Shierl came after.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 {\*\bkmkstart one}{\*\bkmkend one}The room was 
cubical, floored with dull black stuff, walled with myriad golden knobs on all sides. A hooded chair occupied the center of the room, and beside it was a chest-high lectern whose face displayed a number of toggles and knurled wheels.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 'This is the Curator's own Chair of Knowledge," explained Kerlin. "As such it will, upon proper adjustment, impost the Pattern of Hynomeneural Clarity. So\emdash I demand the correct sometsyndic arrangement
\emdash " he manipulated the manuals "\emdash and now, if you will compose yourself, I will repair your hallucination. It is beyond my normal call of duty, but I am humane and would not be spoken of as mean or unwilling."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal inquired anxiously, "Lord Curator, this Chair of Clarity, how will it affect me?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Kerlin the Curator said grandly, "The f
ibers of your brain are twisted, snarled, frayed, and so make contact with unintentional areas. By the marvelous craft of our modern cerebrologists, this hood will compose your synapses with the correct readings from the library\emdash 
those of normality, you must understand\emdash and so repair the skein, and make you once more a whole man."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Once I sit}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid13635587  in }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 the chair," Guyal inquired, "what will you do?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Merely close this contact, engage this arm, throw}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid13635587  in }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 this toggle\emdash 
then you daze. In thirty seconds, this bulb glows, signaling the success and completion of the treatment. Then I reverse the manipulation, and you arise a creature of renewed sanity."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal looked at Shierl. "Did you hear and comprehend?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Yes, Guyal," in a small voice.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Remember." Then to the Curator: "Marvelous. But how must I sit?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Merely relax in the seat. Then I pull the hood slightly forward, to shield the eyes from distraction."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal leaned forward, peered gingerly into the hood. "I fear I do not understand."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The Curator hopped forward impatiently. "It is an act of the utmost facility. Like this." He sat in the chair.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "And how will the hood be applied?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "In this wise." Kerlin seized a handle, pulled the shield over his face.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Quick," said Guyal to Shierl. She sprang to the lectern; Kerlin the Curator made a motion to release the hood; Guyal seized the spindly frame, held it. Shierl flung the switches; the Curator relaxed, sighed.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Shierl gazed at Guyal, dark eyes wide and liquid as the great water-flamerian of South Almery. "Is he\emdash dead?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "I hope not."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 They gazed uncertainly at the relaxed form. Seconds passed.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 A clanging noise sounded from afar\emdash a crush, a wrench, an exultant bellow, lesser halloos of wild triumph.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal rushed to the door. Prancing, wa
vering, sidling into the gallery came a multitude of ghosts; through the open door behind, Guyal could see the great head. It was shoving out, pushing into the room. Great ears appeared, part of a bull-neck, wreathed with purple wattles. The wall cracked,
 sagged, crumbled. A great hand thrust through, a forearm...}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Shierl screamed. Guyal, pale and quivering, slammed the door}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid13635587  in }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
the face of the nearest ghost. It seeped in around the jamb, slowly, wisp by wisp.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal sprang to the lectern. The bulb showed du}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid1054710 llness. Guyal's hands twitched }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
along the controls. "Only Kerlin's awareness controls the magic of the baton," he panted. "So much is clear." He stared into the bulb with agonized urgency. "Glow, bulb, glow ..."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 By the door the ghost seeped and billowed.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid1054710 "Glow, bulb, glow ..}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 ."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The bulb glowed. With a sharp cry Guyal returned the switches to neutrality, jumped down, flung up the hood.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Kerlin the Curator sat looking at him.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Behind the ghost formed itself\emdash a tall white thing in white robes, and the dark eye-holes stared like outlets into non-imagination.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Kerlin the Curator sat looking.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The ghost moved under the robes. A hand like a bird's-foot appeared, holding a clod of dingy matter. The ghost cast the matter to the floor; it exploded into a puff of black dust. Th
e motes of the cloud grew, became a myriad of wriggling insects. With one accord they darted across the floor, growing as they spread, and became scuttling creatures with monkey-heads.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Kerlin the Curator moved. "Baton," he said. He held up his hand. It held his baton. The baton spat an orange gout\emdash 
red dust. It puffed before the rushing horde and each mote became a red scorpion. So ensued a ferocious battle, and little shrieks, and cluttering sounds rose from the floor.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The monkey-headed things were killed, routed. The ghost sighed, moved his claw-hand once more. But the baton spat forth a ray of purest light and the ghost sloughed into nothingness.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Kerlin!" cried Guyal. "The demon is breaking into the gallery."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Kerlin flung open the door, stepped forth.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Baton," said Kerlin, "perform thy utmost intent."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The demon said, "No, Kerlin, hold the magic; I thought you dazed. Now I retreat."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 With a vast quaking and heaving he pulled back until once more only his face showed through the hole.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Baton," said Kerlin, "be you on guard."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The baton disappeared from his hand.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Kerlin turned and faced Guyal and Shierl.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "There is need for many words, for now I die. I die, and the Museum shall lie a}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid1054710 lone. So let us speak quickly, }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 quickly, quickly ..."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Kerlin moved with feeble steps to a portal which snapped aside as he approached. Guyal and Shierl, speculating on the probable trends of Kerlin's disposition, stood hesitantly to the rear.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Come, come," said Kerlin in sharp impatience. "My strength flags, I die. You have been my death."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal moved slowly forward, with Shierl half a pace behind. Suitable response to the accusation escaped him; words seemed without conviction.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Kerlin surveyed them with a thin grin. "Halt your misgivings and hasten; the necessities to be accomplished }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid1054710 in }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
the time available there to make the task like trying to write the Tomes of Kae in a minim of ink. I wane; my pulsing comes in shallow tides, my sight flickers .. ."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 He waved a despairing hand, then, turning, led them into the inner chamber, where he slumped into a great chair. With many uneasy glances at the door, Guyal and Shierl settled upon a padded couch.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Kerlin jeered in a feeble voice, "You fear the white phantasms? Poh, they are pent from the gallery by the baton, which contains their every effort Only when I am}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid15760631 
 smitten out of mind\emdash or dead\emdash will}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  the baton cease its function. You must know," he added with somewhat more vigor, "that the energies and dynamics do not channel from my }{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid15760631 b}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 rain but from the central potentium of the Museum, which is perpetual; I merely direct and order the rod."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "But this demon\emdash who or what is he? Why does he come to look through the walls?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Kerlin's face settled into a bleak mask. "He is Blikdak, Ruler-Divinity of the demon-world Jeldred. He wrenched the 
hole intent on gulfing the knowledge of the Museum into his mind, but I forestalled him; so he sits waiting in the hole till I die. Then he will glut himself with erudition to the great disadvantage of men."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Why cannot this demon be exhorted hence and the hole abolished?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
Kerlin the Curator shook his head. "The fires and furious powers I control are not valid in the air of the demon-world, where substance and form are of different entity. So far as you see him, he has brought his environment with him; so f
ar he is safe. When he ventures further into the Museum, the power of Earth dissolves the Jeldred mode; then may I spray him with prismatic fervor from the potentium . . . But stay, enough of Blikdak for the nonce; tell me, who are you, why are you ventur
ed here, and what is the news of Thorsingol?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
Guyal said in a halting voice, "Thorsingol is passed beyond memory. There is naught above but arid tundra and the old town of the Saponids. I am of the southland; I have coursed many leagues so that I might spea
k to you and fill my mind with knowledge. This girl Shierl is of the Saponids, and victim of an ancient custom which sends beauty into the Museum at the behest of Blikdak's ghosts."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Ah," breathed Kerlin, "have I been so aimless? I recall these youthful sh
apes which Blikdak employed to relieve the tedium of his vigil . . . They flit down my memory like may-flies along a panel of glass . . . I put them aside as creatures of his own conception, postulated by his own imagery . . ."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Shierl shrugged in bewilderment. "But why? What use to him are human creatures?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Kerlin said dully, "Girl, you are all charm and freshness; the monstrous urges of the demon-lord Blikdak are past your conceiving. These youths, of both sexes, are his. play, on whom he practices various
 junctures, joinings, coiti, perversions, sadisms, nauseas, antics and at last struggles to the death. Then he sends forth a ghost demanding further youth and beauty."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Shierl whispered, "This was to have been I..."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal said in puzzlement, "I cannot under
stand. Such acts, in my understanding, are the characteristic derangements of humanity. They are anthropoid by the very nature of the functioning sacs, glands and organs. Since Blikdak is a demon .. ."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Consider him!" spoke Kerlin. "His lineaments, his app
aratus. He is nothing else but anthropoid, and such is his origin, together with all the demons, frits and winged glowing-eyed creatures that infest latter-day Earth. Blikdak, like the others, is from the mind of man. The sweaty condensation, the stench a
n
d vileness, the cloacal humors, the brutal delights, the rapes and sodomies, the scatophilac whims, the manifold tittering lubricities that have drained through humanity formed a vast tumor; so Blikdak assumed his being, so now this is he. You have seen h
ow he molds his being, so he performs his enjoyments. But of Blikdak, enough. I die, I die!" He sank into the chair with heaving chest.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "See me! My eyes vary and waver. My breath is shallow as a bird's, my bones are the pith of an old vine. I have lived bey
ond knowledge; in my madness I knew no passage of time. Where there is no knowledge there are no somatic consequences. Now I remember the years and centuries, the millennia, the epochs\emdash 
they are like quick glimpses through a shutter. So, curing my madness, you have killed me."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Shierl blinked, drew back. "But when you die? What then? Blikdak ..."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal asked, "In the Museum of Man is there no knowledge of the exorcisms necessary to dissolve this demon? He is clearly our first antagonist, our immediacy."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Blik
dak must be eradicated," said Kerlin. "Then will I die in ease; then must you assume the care of the Museum." He licked his white lips. "An ancient principle specifies that, in order to destroy a substance, the nature of the substance must be determined. 
In short, before Blikdak may be dissolved, we must discover his elemental na}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid11341839 ture." And his eyes moved glassil}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 y to Guyal.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Your pronouncement is sound beyond argument," admitted Guyal, but how may this be accomplished? Blikdak will never allow such an investigation."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "No; there must be subterfuge, some instrumentality . . ."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "The ghost are part of Blikdak's stuff?".}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Indeed."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Can the ghosts be stayed and prevented?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Indeed; in a box of light, the which I can effect by a thought. Yes, a ghost we must have." Kerlin raised his head. "Baton! one ghost; admit a ghost!"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 A moment passed; Kerlin held up his hand. There was a faint s
cratch at the door, and a soft whine could be heard without. "Open," said a voice, full of sobs and catches and quavers. "Open and let forth the youthful creatures to Blikdak. He finds boredom and lassitude in his vigil; so let the two come forth to negat
e his unease."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Kerlin laboriously rose to his feet. "It is done."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 From behind the door came a sad voice, "I am pent, I am snared in scorching brilliance!"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Now we discover," said Guyal. "What dissolves the ghost dissolves Blikdak."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "True indeed," assented Kerlin.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Why not light?" inquired Shierl. "Light parts the fabric of the ghosts like a gust of wind tatters the fog."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "But merely for their fragility; Blikdak is harsh and solid, and can withstand the fiercest radiance safe}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid13635587  in }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
his demon-land alcove." And Kerlin mused. After a moment he gestured to the door. "We go to the image}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid3099170 -}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
expander; there we will explode the ghost to macroid dimension; so shall we find his basis. Guyal of Sfere, you must support my frailness; in truth my limbs are weak as wax."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 On Guyal's arm he tottered forward, and with Shierl close}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid3099170  at their heels they gained the}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
 gallery. Here the ghost wept in its cage of light, and searched constantly for a dark aperture to seep his essence through.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Paying him no heed Kerlin hobbled and limped across the gallery. In their wake followed the box of light and perforce the ghost.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Open the great door," cried Kerlin in a voice beset with cra}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid3099170 cking and hoarseness. "The grea}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 t }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid3099170 
door into the Cognative Reposit}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 o}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid3099170 r}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 y!"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Shierl ran ahead and thrust her force against the door; it slid aside, and they looked into the great dark }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid3099170 hal}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
l, and the golden light from the gallery dwindled into the shadows and was lost.}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid3099170  }{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Call for Lumen," Kerlin said.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Lumen!" cried Guyal. "Lumen, attend!"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Light came to the great hall, and it prove
d so tall that the pilasters along the wall dwindled to threads, and so long and wide that a man might be winded to fatigue in running a dimension. Spaced in equal rows were the black cases with the copper bosses that Guyal and Shierl had }{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid3099170 noted on their entry. And above}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056  each hung five similar cases, precisely fixed, floating without support.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "What are these?" asked Guyal}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid13635587  in }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 wonder.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Would my poor brain encompassed a hundredth part of what these banks know," panted Kerlin. "They are great brains crammed with
 all that known, experienced, achieved, or recorded by man. Here is all the lost lore, early and late, the fabulous imaginings, the history of ten million cities, the beginnings of time and the presumed finalities; the reason for human existence and the r
eason for the reason. Daily I have labored and toiled}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid13635587  in }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
these banks; my achievement has been a synopsis of the most superficial sort: a panorama across a wide and multifarious country."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Said Shierl, "Would not the craft to destroy Blikdak be contained here?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Indeed, indeed; our task would be merely to find the}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid3099170  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
information. Under which casing would we search? Consider these categories: Demonlands; Killings and Mortefactions; Expositions and Dissolutions of Evil; History of Granvilunde (where such an entity 
was repelled) ; Attractive and Detractive Hyperordnets; Therapy for Hallucinants and Ghost-takers; Constructive Journal, item for regeneration of burst walls, sub-division for invasion by demons; Procedural Suggestions in Time of Risk . . . Aye, these and
 
a thousand more. Somewhere is knowledge of how to smite Blikdak's abhorred face back into his quasiplace. But where to look? There is no Index Major; none except the poor synopsis of my compilation. He who seeks specific knowledge must often go on an exte
nded search . . ." His voice trailed off. Then: "Forward! Forward through the banks to the Mechanismus."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 So through the banks they went, like roaches}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid13635587  in }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
a maze, and behind drifted the cage of light with the wailing ghost At last they entered a chamber smelling of metal; again Kerlin instructed Guyal and Guyal called, "Attend us, Lumen, attend!"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Through intricate devices walked the three, Guyal lost and rapt beyond inquiry, even though his brain ached with the want of knowing.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 At a tall booth Kerlin halted the cage of light. A pane of vitrean dropped before the ghost. "Observe now," Kerlin said, and manipulated the activants.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 They saw the ghost, depicted and projected: the flowing robe, the haggard visage. The face grew large, f
lattened; a segment under the vacant eye became a scabrous white place. It separated into pustules, and a single pustule swelled to fill the pane. The crater of the pustule was an intricate stippled surface, a mesh as of fabric, knit in a lacy pattern.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Behold!" said Shierl. "He is a thing woven as if by thread."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal turned eagerly to Kerlin; Kerlin raised a finger for silence. "Indeed, indeed, a goodly thought, especially since here beside us is a rotor of extreme swiftness, used in reeling the cognit
ive filaments of the cases . . . Now then observe: I reach to this panel, I select a mesh, I withdraw a thread, and note! The meshes ravel and loosen and part. And now to the bobbin on the rotor, and}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid3099170  }{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 I wrap the thread, and now with a twist we have the cincture made ..."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Shierl said dubiously, "Does not the ghost observe and note your doing?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "By no means," asserted Kerlin. "The pane of vitrean shields our actions; he is too exercised to attend. And now I dissolve the cage and he is free."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The ghost wandered forth,  cringing from the light.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid7740987 Go!}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 " cried Kerlin. "Back to your genetrix; back, return and go!"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The ghost departed. Kerlin said to Guyal, "Follow; find when Blikdak snuffs him up."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal at a cautious distance watched the ghost seep up into the black nostril, and returned to where Kerlin waited by the rotor. "The ghost has once more become part of Blikdak."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Now then," 'said Kerlin, "we cause the rotor to twist, the bobbin to whirl, and we shall observe."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The rotor whirled to a blur; the bobbin (as long as Guyal's arm) became spun with ghost-thread, at first glowing pastel polychrome, then nacre, then line milk-ivory.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 

\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid3099170 The rotor spun, a million tim}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 es a minute, and the thread drawn unseen and unknown from Blikdak thickened on the bobbin.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 The rotor spun; the bobbin was full\emdash a cylinder shining with glossy silken sheen. Kerlin slowed the rotor; Guyal snapped a new bobbin into place, and the unraveling of Blikdak continued.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Three bobbins\emdash four\emdash five\emdash and Guyal, observing Blikdak from afar, found the giant face qui
escent, the mouth working and sucking, creating the clacking sound which had first caused them apprehension.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Eight bobbins. Blikdak opened his eyes, stared in puzzlement around the chamber.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Twelve bobbins: a discolored spot appeared on the sagging cheek, and Blikdak quivered in uneasiness.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Twenty bobbins: the spot spread across Blikdak's visage, across the slanted fore-dome, and his mouth hung lax; he hissed and fretted.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Thirty bobbins: Blikdak's head seemed stale and putrid; the gunmetal sheen had become an angry maroon,}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid3099170  }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
the eyes bulged, the mouth hung open, the tongue lolled limp.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Fifty bobbins: Blikdak collapsed. His dome lowered against the febrile mouth; his eyes shone like feverish coals.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Sixty bobbins: Blikdak was no more.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 And with the dissolution of Blikdak so dissolved Jeldred, the demonl}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid3099170 and created for the housing of }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
evil. The breach in the wall gave on barren rock, unbroken and rigid.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 And in the Mechanismus sixty shining bobbins lay stacked neat; the evil so disorganized glowed with purity and }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid7740987 ir}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid7740987\charrsid993056 idescence}{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 .}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
Kerlin fell back against the wall. "I expire; my time has come. I have guarded well the Museum; together we have won it away from Blikdak . . . Attend me now. Into your hands I pass the curacy; now the Museum is your charge to guard and preserve."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "For what end?" asked Shierl. "Earth expires, almost as you ... Wherefore knowledge?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "More now than ever," gasped Kerlin. "Attend: the stars are bright, the stars are fair; the banks know blessed magic to fleet you to youthful climes. Now\emdash I go. I die."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Wait!" cried Guyal. Wait, I beseech!"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "Why wait?" whispered Kerlin. "The way to peace is on me; you call me back?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "How do I extract from the banks?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "The key to the index is in my chambers, the index of my life ..." And Kerlin died.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal and Shierl climbed to the upper ways and stood outside the portal on the ancient flagged floor. It was night; the marble shone faintly underfoot, the broken columns loomed on the sky.}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Across the plain the yellow lights of Saponce shone warm through the trees; above in the sky shone the stars.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal said to Shierl, "There is your home; there is Saponce. Do you wish to return?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 She shook her head. 'Together we have looked through the eyes of knowledge. We have seen old Thorsingol, and the Sherit Empire before it, and Golwan Andra before}{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid3099170  }{
\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
that and the Forty Kades even before. We have seen the warlike green-men, and the knowledgeable Pharials and the Clambs who departed Earth for the stars, as did the Merioneth before them and the Gray Sorcerers still earli
er. We have seen oceans rise and fall, the mountains crust up, peak and melt in the beat of rain; we have looked on the sun when it glowed hot and full and yellow . . . No, Guyal, there is no place for me at Saponce . .."}{
\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Guyal, leaning back on the weathered pillar, looked up to the stars. "Knowledge is ours, Shierl\emdash all of knowing to our call. And what shall we do?"}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 Together they looked up to the white stars.}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }{\f36\fs24\cf1\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 "What shall we do ..."}{\f36\fs24\insrsid993056\charrsid993056 
\par }}