{\rtf1\adeflang1025\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\adeff0\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang3081\deflangfe3081{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f37\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02000603020000020003}ITC Berkeley Oldstyle;}
{\f229\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f230\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f232\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f233\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f234\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f235\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f236\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f237\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang1025 
\ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\lang3081\langfe3081\cgrid\langnp3081\langfenp3081 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tblind0\tblindtype3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}}
{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax156\lsdlockeddef0}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid-1522764714\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelold\levelspace0\levelindent360{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers
\'01;}\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fbias0 }{\listname ;}\listid1923685733}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1923685733\listoverridecount0\ls1}}{\*\revtbl {Unknown;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid5381837\rsid11695271}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 11.0.0000;}{\info
{\operator .}{\creatim\yr2009\mo8\dy13\hr18\min19}{\revtim\yr2009\mo8\dy13\hr18\min20}{\version2}{\edmins1}{\nofpages200}{\nofwords86345}{\nofchars404097}{\nofcharsws486455}{\vern24611}{\*\password 00000000}}{\*\xmlnstbl {\xmlns1 http://schemas.microsoft.
com/office/word/2003/wordml}}\paperw7258\paperh11170\margl567\margr567\margt567\margb567\gutter0\ltrsect 
\deftab284\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\donotembedsysfont0\donotembedlingdata1\grfdocevents0\validatexml0\showplaceholdtext0\ignoremixedcontent0\saveinvalidxml0\showxmlerrors0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3
\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale110\rsidroot11695271 \fet0{\*\wgrffmtfilter 013f}\ilfomacatclnup0\ltrpar \sectd \ltrsect\psz152\sbknone\linex0\headery284\footery284\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid11695271\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9
\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\lang3081\langfe3081\cgrid\langnp3081\langfenp3081 {\rtlch\fcs1 
\af37\afs56 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs56\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Harry Potter
\par and the Chamber of Secrets
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sb360\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs30 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs30\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 J. K. Rowling
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs16 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs16\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs18 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs18\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
All rights reserved; no part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying or otherwise, without the prior permission of the publisher
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs16 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs16\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs18 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs18\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 First published in Great Britain in 1998
\par Bloomsbury Publishing Plc, 36 Soho Square, London, W1D 3QY
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs16 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs16\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs18 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs18\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 This edition first published in 2004
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs16 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs16\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs18 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs18\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Copyright \'a9J. K. Rowling 1998
\par Cover image copyright \'a9 Michael Wildsmith 2004
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs16 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs16\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs18 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs18\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Harry Potter, names, characters and related indicia are copyright and trademark Warner Bros., 2000\'99
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs16 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs16\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs18 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs18\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 With thanks to the Natural History Museum, London, for permission to photograph the snake stone carving for use on the cover image
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs16 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs16\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs18 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs18\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 The moral right of the author has been asserted
\par A CIP catalogue record of this book is available from the British Library
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs16 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs16\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs18 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs18\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 ISBN 978 0 7475 7361 6
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs16 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs16\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs18 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs18\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 The paper this book is printed on is certified by the \'a9 1996 Forest Stewardship Council A.C. (FSC). It is ancient-forest friendly. T
he printer holds FSC chain of custody SGS-COC-2061.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs16 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs16\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs18 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs18\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Printed in Great Britain by Clays Ltd, St Ives plc
\par Typeset by Dorchester Typesetting
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs16 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs16\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs18 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs18\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 5 7 9 10 8 6 4
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs16 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs16\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs18 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs18\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 www.bloomsbury.com/harrypotter
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs16 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs16\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs36 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs36\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 BLOOMSBURY
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs16 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs16\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 for S\'e9an P. F. Harris,
\par getaway driver and foulweather friend
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \page 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \emdash  CHAPTER ONE \emdash 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sa280\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs56 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs56\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 The Worst Birthday
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sa280\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
Not for the first time, an argument had broken out over breakfast at number four, Privet Drive. Mr Vernon Dursley had been woken in the early hours of the morning by a loud, hooting noise from his nephew Harry\rquote s room.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Third time this week!\rquote  he roared across the table. \lquote If you can\rquote 
t control that owl, it\rquote ll have to go!\rquote 
\par Harry tried, yet again, to explain.
\par \lquote She\rquote s }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 bored,\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  he said. \lquote She\rquote 
s used to flying around outside. If I could just let her out at night ...\rquote 
\par \lquote Do I look stupid?\rquote  snarled Uncle Vernon, a bit of fried egg dan\-gling from his bushy moustache. \lquote I know what\rquote ll happen if that owl\rquote s let out.\rquote 
\par He exchanged dark looks with his wife, Petunia.
\par Harry tried to argue back but his words were drowned by a long, loud belch from the Dursleys\rquote  son, Dudley.
\par \lquote I want more bacon.\rquote 
\par \lquote There\rquote s more in the frying pan, sweetums,\rquote  said Aunt Petunia, turning misty eyes on her massive son. \lquote We must feed you up while we\rquote ve got the chance ... I don\rquote t like the sound of that school food ...\rquote 

\par \lquote Nonsense, Petunia, I never went hungry when I was at Smeltings,\rquote  said Uncle Vernon heartily. \lquote Dudley gets enough, don\rquote t you, son?\rquote 
\par Dudley, who was so large his bottom drooped over either side of the kitchen chair, grinned and turned to Harry.
\par \lquote Pass the frying pan.\rquote 
\par \lquote You\rquote ve forgotten the magic word,\rquote  said Harry irritably.
\par The effect of this simple sentence on the rest of the family was incredible: Dudley gasped and fell off his chair with a crash that shook the whole kitchen; Mrs Dursley gave a small scream and clapped her hands to her mouth; Mr D
ursley jumped to his feet, veins throbbing in his temples.
\par \lquote I meant \'93please\'94!\rquote  said Harry quickly. \lquote I didn\rquote t mean \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote WHAT HAVE I TOLD YOU,\rquote  thundered his uncle, spraying spit over the table, \lquote ABOUT SAYING THE M WORD IN OUR HOUSE?\rquote 
\par \lquote But I \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote HOW DARE YOU THREATEN DUDLEY!\rquote  roared Uncle Vernon, pounding the table with his fist.
\par \lquote I just \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote I WARNED YOU! I WILL NOT TOLERATE MENTION OF YOUR ABNORMALITY UNDER THIS ROOF!\rquote 
\par Harry stared from his purple-faced uncle to his pale aunt, who was trying to heave Dudley to his feet.
\par \lquote All right,\rquote  said Harry, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote all right ...\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par Uncle Vernon sat back down, breathing like a winded rhinoceros and watching Harry closely out of the corners of his small, sharp eyes.
\par Ever since Harry had come home for the summer holidays, Uncle Vernon had been treating him like a bomb that might go off at any moment, because Harry }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 wasn\rquote t}{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  a normal boy. As a matter of fact, he was as not normal as it is possible to be.
\par Harry Potter was a wizard \endash  a wizard fresh from his first year at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. And if the Dursleys were unhappy to have him back for the holidays, it was nothing to how Harry felt.
\par He missed Hogwarts so much it was like having a constant stomach ache. He missed the castle, with its secret passagew
ays and ghosts, his lessons (though perhaps not Snape, the Potions master), the post arriving by owl, eating banquets in the Great Hall, sleeping in his four-poster bed in the tower dormitory, visit\-
ing the gamekeeper, Hagrid, in his cabin in the grounds next to the Forbidden Forest and, especially, Quidditch, the most popular sport in the wizarding world (six tall goalposts, four flying balls and fourteen players on broomsticks).
\par All Harry\rquote s spellbooks, his wand, robes, cauldron and top-of-the-range Nimbus
 Two Thousand broomstick had been locked in a cupboard under the stairs by Uncle Vernon the instant Harry had come home. What did the Dursleys care if Harry lost his place in the house Quidditch team because he hadn\rquote t practised all sum\-
mer? What was it to the Dursleys if Harry went back to school without any of his homework done? The Dursleys were what wiz\-
ards called Muggles (not a drop of magical blood in their veins) and as far as they were concerned, having a wizard in the family was a matter of deepest shame. Uncle Vernon had even padlocked Harry\rquote 
s owl, Hedwig, inside her cage, to stop her carrying mes\-sages to anyone in the wizarding world.
\par Harry looked nothing like the rest of the family. Uncle Vernon was large and neckless, with an enormous black moustache; Aunt Petunia was horse-faced and bony; Dudley was blond, pink and porky. Harry, on the other hand, was small and skinny, with bril\-
liant green eyes and jet-black hair that was always untidy. He wore round glasses, and on his forehead was a thin, lightning-shaped scar.
\par It was this scar that made Harry so particularly unusual, even for a wizard. This scar was the only hint of Harry\rquote s very mysteri\-ous past, of the reason he had been left on the Dursleys\rquote  doorstep eleven years before.
\par At the age of one, Harry had somehow survived a curse from the greatest dark sorcerer of all time, Lord Voldemort, whose name most witches and wizards still feared to speak. Harry\rquote s par\-ents had died in Voldemort\rquote 
s attack, but Harry had escaped with his lightning scar, and somehow \endash  nobody understood why \endash  Voldemort\rquote s powers had been destroyed the instant he had failed to kill Harry.
\par So Harry had been brought up by his dead mother\rquote s sister and her husband. He had spent ten years with the Dursleys, never understanding why he kept making odd things happen without meaning to, believing the Dursleys\rquote 
 story that he had got his scar in the car crash which had killed his parents.
\par And then, exactly a year ago, Hogwarts had written to Harry, and the whole story had come out. Harry had
 taken up his place at wizard school, where he and his scar were famous ... but now the school year was over, and he was back with the Dursleys for the summer, back to being treated like a dog that had rolled in something smelly.
\par The Dursleys hadn\rquote t even remembered that today happened to be Harry\rquote s twelfth birthday. Of course, his hopes hadn\rquote t been high; they\rquote d never given him a proper present, let alone a cake \endash  but to ignore it completely ...

\par At that moment, Uncle Vernon cleared his throat importantly and said, \lquote Now, as we all know, today is a very important day.\rquote 
\par Harry looked up, hardly daring to believe it.
\par \lquote This could well be the day I make the biggest deal of my career,\rquote  said Uncle Vernon.
\par Harry went back to his toast. Of course, he thought bitterly, Uncle Vernon was talking about the stupid dinner party. He\rquote 
d been talking of nothing else for a fortnight. Some rich builder and his wife were coming to dinner and Uncle Vernon was hoping to get a huge order from him (Uncle Vernon\rquote s company made drills).
\par \lquote I think we should run through the schedule one more time,\rquote  said Uncle Vernon. \lquote We should all be in position at eight o\rquote clock. Petunia, you will be \endash ?\rquote 
\par \lquote In the lounge,\rquote  said Aunt Petunia promptly, \lquote waiting to wel\-come them graciously to our home.\rquote 
\par \lquote Good, good. And Dudley?\rquote 
\par \lquote I\rquote ll be waiting to open the door.\rquote  Dudley put on a foul, simper\-ing smile. \lquote May I take your coats, Mr and Mrs Mason?\rquote 
\par \lquote They\rquote ll }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 love}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  him!\rquote  cried Aunt Petunia rapturously.
\par \lquote Excellent, Dudley,\rquote  said Uncle Vernon. Then he rounded on Harry. \lquote And }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 you?\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par \lquote I\rquote ll be in my bedroom, making no noise and pretending I\rquote m not there,\rquote  said Harry tonelessly.
\par \lquote Exactly,\rquote  said Uncle Vernon nastily. \lquote I will lead them into the lounge, introduce you, Petunia, and pour them drinks. At eight fifteen \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote I\rquote ll announce dinner,\rquote  said Aunt Petunia.
\par \lquote And Dudley, you\rquote ll say \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote May I take you through to the dining room, Mrs Mason?\rquote  said Dudley, offering his fat arm to an invisible woman.
\par \lquote My perfect little gentleman!\rquote  sniffed Aunt Petunia.
\par \lquote And }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 you?\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  said Uncle Vernon viciously to Harry.
\par \lquote I\rquote ll be in my room, making no noise and pretending I\rquote m not there,\rquote  said Harry dully.
\par \lquote Precisely. Now, we should aim to get in a few good compli\-ments at dinner. Petunia, any ideas?\rquote 
\par \lquote Vernon tells me you\rquote re a }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 wonderful}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  golfer, Mr Mason }{\rtlch\fcs1 
\ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 ...}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Do}
{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  tell me where you bought your dress, Mrs Mason ...\rquote 
\par \lquote Perfect ... Dudley?\rquote 
\par \lquote How about: \'93We had to write an essay about our hero at school, Mr Mason, and }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 I}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  wrote about }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 you}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 .\'94 \rquote 

\par This was too much for both Aunt Petunia and Harry. Aunt Petunia burst into tears and hugged her son, while Harry ducked under the table so they wouldn\rquote t see him laughing.
\par \lquote And you, boy?\rquote 
\par Harry fought to keep his face straight as he emerged.
\par \lquote I\rquote ll be in my room, making no noise and pretending I\rquote m not there,\rquote  he said.
\par \lquote Too right you will,\rquote  said Uncle Vernon forcefully. \lquote The Masons don\rquote t know anything about you and it\rquote s going to stay that way. When dinner\rquote s over, you take Mrs Mason back to the lounge for coffee, Petunia, and I
\rquote ll bring the subject round to drills. With any luck, I\rquote ll have the deal signed and sealed before the }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 News at Ten.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  We\rquote ll be shopping for a holiday home in Majorca this time tomor\-row.\rquote 
\par Harry couldn\rquote t feel too excited about this. He didn\rquote t think the Dursleys would like him any better in Majorca than they did in Privet Drive.
\par \lquote Right \endash  I\rquote m off into town to pick up the dinner jackets for Dudley and me. And }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 you,}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \rquote  he snarled at Harry, \lquote you stay out of your aunt\rquote s way while she\rquote s cleaning.\rquote 
\par Harry left through the back door. It was a brilliant, sunny day. He crossed the lawn, slumped down on the garden bench and sang under his breath, \lquote Happy birthday to me ... happy birthday to me ...\rquote 
\par No cards, no presents, and he would be spending the evening pretending not to exist. He gazed miserably into the hedge. He had never 
felt so lonely. More than anything else at Hogwarts, more even than playing Quidditch, Harry missed his best friends, Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger. They, however, didn\rquote 
t seem to be missing him at all. Neither of them had written to him all summer, even though Ron had said he was going to ask Harry to come and stay.
\par Countless times, Harry had been on the point of unlocking Hedwig\rquote s cage by magic and sending her to Ron and Hermione with a letter, but it wasn\rquote t worth the risk. Underage wizards weren\rquote t allowed to use magic outside school. Harry hadn
\rquote t told the Dursleys this; he knew it was only their terror that he might turn them all into dung beetles that stopped them locking }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 him}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 
\ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  in the cupboard under the stairs with his wand and broomstick. For the first 
couple of weeks back, Harry had enjoyed muttering nonsense words under his breath and watching Dudley tearing out of the room as fast as his fat legs would carry him. But the long silence from Ron and Hermione had made Harry feel so cut off from the magic
al world that even taunting Dudley had lost its appeal \endash  and now Ron and Hermione had forgotten his birthday.
\par What wouldn\rquote t he give now for a message from Hogwarts? From any witch or wizard? He\rquote d almost be glad of a sight of his arch-enemy, Draco Malfoy, just to be sure it hadn\rquote t all been a dream ...
\par Not that his whole year at Hogwarts had been fun. At the very end of last term, Harry had come face to face with none other than Lord Voldemort himself. Voldemort might be a ruin of his former self, but he was still terrifying, still cunning, still deter
\-mined to regain power. Harry had slipped through Voldemort\rquote s clutches for a second time, but it had been a narrow escape, and even now, weeks later, Harry kept waking in the night, drenched in cold sweat, wonderi
ng where Voldemort was now, remember\-ing his livid face, his wide, mad eyes ...
\par Harry suddenly sat bolt upright on the garden bench. He had been staring absent-mindedly into the hedge \endash  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 and the hedge was staring back.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 
\ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Two enormous green eyes had appeared among the leaves.
\par Harry jumped to his feet just as a jeering voice floated across the lawn.
\par \lquote I know what day it is,\rquote  sang Dudley, waddling towards him.
\par The huge eyes blinked and vanished.
\par \lquote What?\rquote  said Harry, not taking his eyes off the spot where they had been.
\par \lquote I know what day it is,\rquote  Dudley repeated, coming right up to him.
\par \lquote Well done,\rquote  said Harry. \lquote So you\rquote ve finally learned the days of the week.\rquote 
\par \lquote Today\rquote s your }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 birthday,\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  sneered Dudley. \lquote 
How come you haven\rquote t got any cards? Haven\rquote t you even got friends at that freak place?\rquote 
\par \lquote Better not let your mum hear you talking about my school,\rquote  said Harry coolly.
\par Dudley hitched up his trousers, which were slipping down his fat bottom.
\par \lquote Why\rquote re you staring at the hedge?\rquote  he said suspiciously.
\par \lquote I\rquote m trying to decide what would be the best spell to set it on fire,\rquote  said Harry.
\par Dudley stumbled backwards at once, a look of panic on his fat face.
\par \lquote You c-can\rquote t \endash  Dad told you you\rquote re not to do m-magic \endash  he said he\rquote ll chuck you out of the house \endash  and you haven\rquote t got anywhere else to go \endash  you haven\rquote t got any }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 
\ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 friends}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  to take you \endash \rquote 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Jiggery pokery!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  said Harry in a fierce voice. \lquote 
Hocus pocus ... squiggly wiggly ...\rquote 
\par \lquote MUUUUUUM!\rquote  howled Dudley, tripping over his feet as he dashed back towards the house. \lquote MUUUUM! He\rquote s doing you know what!\rquote 
\par Harry paid dearly for his moment of fun. As neither Dudley nor the hedge was in any way hurt, Aunt Petunia knew he hadn\rquote t real\-ly done magic, but he still had to duck as she aimed a heavy blow at his head with the soapy frying 
pan. Then she gave him work to do, with the promise he wouldn\rquote t eat again until he\rquote d finished.
\par While Dudley lolled around watching and eating ice-creams, Harry cleaned the windows, washed the car, mowed the lawn, trimmed the flowerbeds, pruned and watered the roses and re\-
painted the garden bench. The sun blazed overhead, burning the back of his neck. Harry knew he shouldn\rquote t have risen to Dudley\rquote s bait, but Dudley had said the very thing Harry had been thinking himself ... maybe he }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 
\ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 didn\rquote t}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  have any friends at Hogwarts ...
\par \lquote Wish they could see famous Harry Potter now,\rquote  he thought sav\-agely, as he spread manure on the flowerbeds, his back aching, sweat running down his face.
\par It was half past seven in the evening when at last, exhausted, he heard Aunt Petunia calling him.
\par \lquote Get in here! And walk on the newspaper!\rquote 
\par Harry moved gladly into the shade of the gleaming kitchen. On top of the fridge stood tonight\rquote s pudding: a huge mound of whipped cream and sugared violets. A joint of roast pork was siz\-zling in the oven.
\par \lquote Eat quickly! The Masons will be here soon!\rquote  snapped Aunt Petunia, pointing to two slices of bread and a lump of cheese on the kitchen table. She was already wearing a salmon-pink cocktail dress.
\par Harry washed his hands and bolted down his pitiful supper. The moment he had finished, Aunt Petunia whisked away his plate. \lquote Upstairs! Hurry!\rquote 
\par As he passed the door to the living room, Harry caught a glimpse of Uncle Vernon and Dudley in bow-ties and dinner jackets. He had only just reached the upstairs landing when the doorbell rang and Uncle Vernon\rquote 
s furious face appeared at the foot of the stairs.
\par \lquote Remember, boy \endash  one sound ...\rquote 
\par Harry crossed to his bedroom on tiptoe, slipped inside, closed the door and turned to collapse on his bed.
\par The trouble was, there was already someone sitting on it.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \page 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \emdash  CHAPTER TWO \emdash 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sa280\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs56 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs56\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Dobby\rquote s Warning
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sa280\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Harry managed not to shout out, but it was a close thing. The lit\-
tle creature on the bed had large, bat-like ears and bulging green eyes the size of tennis balls. Harry knew instantly that this was what had been watching him out of the garden hedge that morn\-ing.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 As they stared at each other, Harry heard Dudley\rquote s voice from the hall.
\par \lquote May I take your coats, Mr and Mrs Mason?\rquote 
\par The creature slipped off the bed and bowed so low that the end of its long thin nose touched the carpet. Harry noticed that it was wearing what looked like an old pillowcase, with rips for arm and leg holes.
\par \lquote Er \endash  hello,\rquote  said Harry nervously.
\par \lquote Harry Potter!\rquote  said the creature, in a high-pitched voice Harry was sure would carry down the stairs. \lquote So long has Dobby wanted to meet you, sir ... Such an honour it is ...\rquote 
\par \lquote Th-thank you,\rquote  said Harry, edging along the wall and sinking into his desk chair, next to Hedwig, who was asleep in her large cage. He wanted to ask, \lquote What are you?\rquote  but thought it would sound too rude, so instead he said, 
\lquote Who are you?\rquote 
\par \lquote Dobby, sir. Just Dobby. Dobby the house-elf,\rquote  said the creature.
\par \lquote Oh \endash  really?\rquote  said Harry. \lquote Er \endash  I don\rquote t want to be rude or any\-thing, but \endash  this isn\rquote t a great time for me to have a house-elf in my bedroom.\rquote 
\par Aunt Petunia\rquote s high, false laugh sounded from the living room. The elf hung his head.
\par \lquote Not that I\rquote m not pleased to meet you,\rquote  said Harry quickly, \lquote but, er, is there any particular reason you\rquote re here?\rquote 
\par \lquote Oh, yes, sir,\rquote  said Dobby earnestly. \lquote Dobby has come to tell you, sir ... it is difficult, sir ... Dobby wonders where to begin ...\rquote 
\par \lquote Sit down,\rquote  said Harry politely, pointing at the bed.
\par To his horror, the elf burst into tears \endash  very noisy tears.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote S-sit down!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  he wailed. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Never ... never ever ...\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par Harry thought he heard the voices downstairs falter.
\par \lquote I\rquote m sorry,\rquote  he whispered, \lquote I didn\rquote t mean to offend you or any\-thing.\rquote 
\par \lquote Offend Dobby!\rquote  choked the elf. \lquote Dobby has }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 never}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
 been asked to sit down by a wizard \endash  like an }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 equal}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  \endash \rquote 
\par Harry, trying to say \lquote Shh!\rquote  and look comforting at the same time, ushered Dobby back onto the bed where he sat hiccoughing, looking like a large and very ugly doll. At last he managed to con\-tro
l himself, and sat with his great eyes fixed on Harry in an expression of watery adoration.
\par \lquote You can\rquote t have met many decent wizards,\rquote  said Harry, trying to cheer him up.
\par Dobby shook his head. Then, without warning, he leapt up and started banging his head furiously on the window, shouting, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Bad}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Dobby! }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Bad}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Dobby!\rquote 

\par \lquote Don\rquote t \endash  what are you doing?\rquote  Harry hissed, springing up and pulling Dobby back onto the bed. Hedwig had woken up with a particularly loud screech and was beating her wings wildly against the bars of her cage.
\par \lquote Dobby had to punish himself, sir,\rquote  said the elf, who had gone slightly cross-eyed. \lquote Dobby almost spoke ill of his family, sir ...\rquote 
\par \lquote Your family?\rquote 
\par \lquote The wizard family Dobby serves, sir ... Dobby is a house-elf \endash  bound to serve one house and one family for ever ...\rquote 
\par \lquote Do they know you\rquote re here?\rquote  asked Harry curiously.
\par Dobby shuddered.
\par \lquote Oh no, sir, no ... Dobby will have to punish himself most griev\-ously for coming to see you, sir. Dobby will have to shut his ears in the oven door for this. If they ever knew, sir \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote But won\rquote t they notice if you shut your ears in the oven door?\rquote 
\par \lquote Dobby doubts it, sir. Dobby is always having to punish himself for something, sir. They lets Dobby get on with it, sir. Sometimes they reminds me to do extra punishments ...\rquote 
\par \lquote But why don\rquote t you leave? Escape?\rquote 
\par \lquote A house-elf must be set free, sir. And the family will never set Dobby free ... Dobby will serve the family until he dies, sir ...\rquote 
\par Harry stared.
\par \lquote And I thought I was hard-done-by staying here for another four weeks,\rquote  he said. \lquote This makes the Dursleys sound almost human. Can\rquote t anyone help you? Can\rquote t I?\rquote 
\par Almost at once, Harry wished he hadn\rquote t spoken. Dobby dis\-solved again into wails of gratitude.
\par \lquote Please,\rquote  Harry whispered frantically, \lquote please be quiet. If the Dursleys hear anything, if they know you\rquote re here ...\rquote 
\par \lquote Harry Potter asks if he can help Dobby ... Dobby has heard of your greatness, sir, but of your goodness, Dobby never knew ...\rquote 
\par Harry, who was feeling distinctly hot in the face, said, \lquote Whatever you\rquote ve heard about my greatness is a load of rubbish. I\rquote m not even top of my year at Hogwarts, that\rquote s Hermione, she \endash \rquote 
\par But he stopped quickly, because thinking about Hermione was painful.
\par \lquote Harry Potter is humble and modest,\rquote  said Dobby reverently, his orb-like eyes aglow. \lquote Harry Potter speaks not of his triumph over He Who Must Not Be Named.\rquote 
\par \lquote Voldemort?\rquote  said Harry.
\par Dobby clapped his hands over his bat ears and moaned, \lquote Ah, speak not the name, sir! Speak not the name!\rquote 
\par \lquote Sorry,\rquote  said Harry quickly. \lquote I know lots of people don\rquote t like it \endash  my friend Ron ...\rquote 
\par He stopped again. Thinking about Ron was painful, too.
\par Dobby leaned towards Harry, his eyes wide as headlamps.
\par \lquote Dobby heard tell,\rquote  he said hoarsely, \lquote that Harry Potter met the Dark Lord for a second time, just weeks ago ... that Harry Potter escaped }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
yet again.\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par Harry nodded and Dobby\rquote s eyes suddenly shone with tears.
\par \lquote Ah, sir,\rquote  he gasped, dabbing his face with a corner of the grub\-by pillowcase he was wearing. \lquote 
Harry Potter is valiant and bold! He has braved so many dangers already! But Dobby has come to protect Harry Potter, to warn him, even if he }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 does}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 
\ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  have to shut his ears in the oven door later ... }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Harry Potter must not go back to Hogwarts.\rquote }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par There was a silence broken only by the chink of knives and forks from downstairs and the distant rumble of Uncle Vernon\rquote s voice.
\par \lquote W-what?\rquote  Harry stammered. \lquote But I\rquote ve got to go back \endash  term starts on September the first. It\rquote s all that\rquote s keeping me going. You don\rquote t know what it\rquote s like here. I don\rquote t }{\rtlch\fcs1 
\ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 belong}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  here. I belong in your world \endash  at Hogwarts.\rquote 
\par \lquote No, no, no,\rquote  squeaked Dobby, shaking his head so hard his ears flapped. \lquote Harry Potter must stay where he is safe. He is too great, too good, to lose. If Harry Potter goes back to Hogwarts, he will be in mortal danger.\rquote 
\par \lquote Why?\rquote  said Harry in surprise.
\par \lquote There is a plot, Harry Potter. A plot to make most terrible things happen at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry this year,\rquote  whispered Dobby, suddenly trembling all over. \lquote 
Dobby has known it for months, sir. Harry Potter must not put himself in peril. He is too important, sir!\rquote 
\par \lquote What terrible things?\rquote  said Harry at once. \lquote Who\rquote s plotting them?\rquote 
\par Dobby made a funny choking noise and then banged his head madly against the wall.
\par \lquote All right!\rquote  cried Harry, grabbing the elf\rquote s arm to stop him. \lquote You can\rquote t say, I understand. But why are you warning }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 me?\rquote }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  A sudden, unpleasant thought struck him. \lquote Hang on \endash  this hasn\rquote t got any\-thing to do with Vol}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \emdash }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  sorry \endash  with You Know Who, has it? You could just shake or nod,\rquote  he added hastily, as Dobby
\rquote s head tilted worryingly close to the wall again.
\par Slowly, Dobby shook his head.
\par \lquote Not \endash  not He }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Who Must Not Be Named,}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  sir.\rquote 
\par But Dobby\rquote s eyes were wide and he seemed to be trying to give Harry a hint. Harry, however, was completely at sea.
\par \lquote He hasn\rquote t got a brother, has he?\rquote 
\par Dobby shook his head, his eyes wider than ever.
\par \lquote Well then, I can\rquote t think who else would have a chance of mak\-ing horrible things happen at Hogwarts,\rquote  said Harry. \lquote I mean, there\rquote s Dumbledore, for one thing \endash  you know who Dumbledore is, don\rquote t you?
\rquote 
\par Dobby bowed his head.
\par \lquote Albus Dumbledore is the greatest Headmaster Hogwarts has ever had. Dobby knows it, sir. Dobby has heard Dumbledore\rquote s powers rival those of He Who Must Not Be Named at the height of his strength. But sir,\rquote  Dobby\rquote 
s voice dropped to an urgent whis\-per, \lquote there are powers Dumbledore doesn\rquote t ... powers no decent wizard ...\rquote 
\par And before Harry could stop him, Dobby bounded off the bed, seized Harry\rquote s desk lamp and started beating himself around the head with ear-splitting yelps.
\par A sudden silence fell downstairs. Two seconds later Harry, heart thudding madly, heard Uncle Vernon coming into the hall, calling, \lquote Dudley must have left his television on again, the little tyke!\rquote 
\par \lquote Quick! In the wardrobe!\rquote  hissed Harry, stuffing Dobby in, shut\-ting the door and flinging himself onto the bed just as the door handle turned.
\par \lquote What \endash  the \endash  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 devil}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  \endash  are \endash  you \endash  doing?
\rquote  said Uncle Vernon through gritted teeth, his face horribly close to Harry\rquote s. \lquote You\rquote ve just ruined the punchline of my Japanese-golfer joke ... one more sound and you\rquote ll wish you\rquote d never been born, boy!\rquote 

\par He stomped flat-footed from the room.
\par Shaking, Harry let Dobby out of the wardrobe.
\par \lquote See what it\rquote s like here?\rquote  he said. \lquote See why I\rquote ve got to go back to Hogwarts? It\rquote s the only place I\rquote ve got \endash  well, I }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 think}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  I\rquote ve got friends.\rquote 
\par \lquote Friends who don\rquote t even }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 write}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  to Harry Potter?\rquote 
 said Dobby slyly.
\par \lquote I expect they\rquote ve just been \endash  hang on,\rquote  said Harry, frowning. \lquote How do }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 you}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  know my friends haven\rquote t been writing to me?\rquote 
\par Dobby shuffled his feet.
\par \lquote Harry Potter mustn\rquote t be angry with Dobby \endash  Dobby did it for the best ...\rquote 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Have you been stopping my letters?\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par \lquote Dobby has them here, sir,\rquote  said the elf. Stepping nimbly out of Harry\rquote s reach, he pulled a thick wad of envelopes from the inside of the pillowcase he was wearing. Harry could make out Hermione\rquote s neat writing, Ron\rquote 
s untidy scrawl and even a scribble that looked as though it was from the Hogwarts gamekeeper, Hagrid.
\par Dobby blinked anxiously up at Harry.
\par \lquote Harry Potter mustn\rquote t be angry ... Dobby hoped ... if Harry Potter thought his friends had forgotten him ... Harry Potter might not want to go back to school, sir ...\rquote 
\par Harry wasn\rquote t listening. He made a grab for the letters, but Dobby jumped out of reach.
\par \lquote Harry Potter will have them, sir, if he gives Dobby his word that he will not return to Hogwarts. Ah, sir, this is a danger you must not face! Say you won\rquote t go back, sir!\rquote 
\par \lquote No,\rquote  said Harry angrily. \lquote Give me my friends\rquote  letters!\rquote 
\par \lquote Then Harry Potter leaves Dobby no choice,\rquote  said the elf sadly.
\par Before Harry could move, Dobby had darted to the bedroom door, pulled it open \endash  and sprinted down the stairs.
\par Mouth dry, stomach lurching, Harry sprang after him, trying not to make a sound. He jumped the last six stairs, landing cat-like on the hall carpet, looking around for Dobby. From the din\-ing room he heard Uncle Vernon saying, \lquote 
... tell Petunia that very funny story about those American plumbers, Mr Mason, she\rquote s been dying to hear ...\rquote 
\par Harry ran up the hall into the kitchen and felt his stomach dis\-appear.
\par Aunt Petunia\rquote s masterpiece of a pudding, the mountain of cream and sugared violets, was floating up near the ceiling. On top of a cupboard in the corner crouched Dobby.
\par \lquote No,\rquote  croaked Harry. \lquote Please ... they\rquote ll kill me ...\rquote 
\par \lquote Harry Potter must say he\rquote s not going back to school \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote Dobby ... please ...\rquote 
\par \lquote Say it, sir ...\rquote 
\par \lquote I can\rquote t!\rquote 
\par Dobby gave him a tragic look.
\par \lquote Then Dobby must do it, sir, for Harry Potter\rquote s own good.\rquote 
\par The pudding fell to the floor with a heart-stopping crash. Cream splattered the windows and walls as the dish shattered. With a crack like a whip, Dobby vanished.
\par There were screams from the dining room and Uncle Vernon burst into the kitchen to find Harry, rigid with shock, covered from head to foot in Aunt Petunia\rquote s pudding.
\par At first, it looked as though Uncle Vernon would manage to gloss the whole thing over (\lquote Just our nephew \endash  very disturbed \endash  meeting strangers upsets him, so we kept him upstairs ...\rquote ) He shooed the shock
ed Masons back into the dining room, promised Harry he would flay him to within an inch of his life when the Masons had left, and handed him a mop. Aunt Petunia dug some ice-cream out of the freezer and Harry, still shaking, started scrub\-
bing the kitchen clean.
\par Uncle Vernon might still have been able to make his deal \endash  if it hadn\rquote t been for the owl.
\par Aunt Petunia was just handing round a box of after-dinner mints when a huge barn owl swooped through the dining room window, dropped a letter on Mrs Mason\rquote s he
ad and swooped out again. Mrs Mason screamed like a banshee and ran from the house, shouting about lunatics. Mr Mason stayed just long enough to tell the Dursleys that his wife was mortally afraid of birds of all shapes and sizes, and to ask whether this 
was their idea of a joke.
\par Harry stood in the kitchen, clutching the mop for support as Uncle Vernon advanced on him, a demonic glint in his tiny eyes.
\par \lquote Read it!\rquote  he hissed evilly, brandishing the letter the owl had delivered. \lquote Go on \endash  read it!\rquote 
\par Harry took it. It did not contain birthday greetings.
\par 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li284\ri284\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin284\lin284\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Dear Mr Potter,}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li284\ri284\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin284\lin284\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
We have received intelligence that a Hover Charm was used at your place of residence this evening at twelve minutes past nine.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
As you know, underage wizards are not permitted to perform spells outside school, and further spellwork on your part may lead to expulsion from said school (Decree for the Reasonable Restriction of Underage sorcery, 1875, Paragraph C).}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 
\ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 We would also ask yo
u to remember that any magical activity which risks notice by members of the non-magical community (Muggles) is a serious offence, under section 13 of the International Confederation of Warlocks\rquote  Statute of Secrecy.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Enjoy your holidays!}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Yours sincerely,}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Mafalda Hopkirk}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Improper Use of Magic Office}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Ministry of Magic}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Harry looked up from the letter and gulped.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote You didn\rquote t tell us you weren\rquote t allowed to use magic outside school,
\rquote  said Uncle Vernon, a mad gleam dancing in his eyes. \lquote Forgot to mention it ... slipped your mind, I dare say ...\rquote 
\par He was bearing down on Harry like a great bulldog, all his teeth bared. \lquote Well, I\rquote ve got news for you, boy ... I\rquote m locking you up ... you\rquote re never going back to that school ... never ... and if you try and magic yourself out 
\endash  they\rquote ll expel you!\rquote 
\par And laughing like a maniac, he dragged Harry back upstairs.
\par Uncle Vernon was as bad as his word. The following morning, he paid a man to fit bars on Harry\rquote s window. He himself fitted the cat-flap in the bedroom door, so that small am
ounts of food could be pushed inside three times a day. They let Harry out to use the bathroom morning and evening. Otherwise, he was locked in his room around the clock.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 *
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Three days later, the Dursleys were showing no sign of relenting and Harry couldn\rquote t
 see any way out of his situation. He lay on his bed watching the sun sinking behind the bars on the window and wondered miserably what was going to happen to him.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 What was the good of magicking himself out of his room if Hogwarts would expel him for doing
 it? Yet life at Privet Drive had reached an all-time low. Now the Dursleys knew they weren\rquote 
t going to wake up as fruitbats, he had lost his only weapon. Dobby might have saved Harry from horrible happenings at Hogwarts, but the way things were going, he\rquote d probably starve to death any\-way.
\par The cat-flap rattled and Aunt Petunia\rquote s hand appeared, pushing a bowl of tinned soup into the room. Harry, whose insides were aching with hunger, jumped off his bed and seized it. The soup was stone cold, but he drank hal
f of it in one gulp. Then he crossed the room to Hedwig\rquote s cage and tipped the soggy vegetables at the bottom of the bowl into her empty food tray. She ruffled her feathers and gave him a look of deep disgust.
\par \lquote It\rquote s no good turning your beak up at it, that\rquote s all we\rquote ve got,\rquote  said Harry grimly.
\par He put the empty bowl back on the floor next to the cat-flap and lay back down on the bed, somehow even hungrier than he had been before the soup.
\par Supposing he was still alive in another four weeks, what would happen if he didn\rquote t turn up at Hogwarts? Would someone be sent to see why he hadn\rquote t come back? Would they be able to make the Dursleys let him go?
\par The room was growing dark. Exhausted, stomach rumbling, mind spinning over the same unanswerable questions, Harry fell into an uneasy sleep.
\par He dreamed that he was on show in a zoo, with a card reading \lquote Underage Wizard\rquote  attached to his cage. People goggled through the bars at him as he lay, starving and weak, on a bed of straw. He saw Dobby\rquote s face in the 
crowd and shouted out, asking for help, but Dobby called, \lquote Harry Potter is safe there, sir!\rquote  and vanished. Then the Dursleys appeared and Dudley rattled the bars of the cage, laughing at him.
\par \lquote Stop it,\rquote  Harry muttered, as the rattling pounded in his sore head. \lquote Leave me alone ... cut it out ... I\rquote m trying to sleep ...\rquote 
\par He opened his eyes. Moonlight was shining through the bars on the window. And someone }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 was}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  goggling through the bars at him: a freckle-faced, red-haired, long-nosed someone.
\par Ron Weasley was outside Harry\rquote s window.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \page 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \emdash  CHAPTER THREE \emdash 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sa280\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs56 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs56\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 The Burrow
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sa280\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Ron!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  breathed Harry, creeping to the window and pushing it up so they could talk through the bars. \lquote Ron, how did you \endash  what the \endash ?\rquote 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Harry\rquote s mouth fell open as the full impact of what he was see\-ing 
hit him. Ron was leaning out of the back window of an old turquoise car, which was parked }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 in mid-air.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Grinning at Harry from the front seats were Fred and George, Ron\rquote s elder twin broth\-ers.
\par \lquote All right, Harry?\rquote 
\par \lquote What\rquote s been going on?\rquote  said Ron. \lquote Why haven\rquote t you been answering my letters? I\rquote ve asked you to stay about twelve times, and then Dad came home and said you\rquote 
d got an official warning for using magic in front of Muggles ...\rquote 
\par \lquote It wasn\rquote t me \endash  and how did he know?\rquote 
\par \lquote He works for the Ministry,\rquote  said Ron. \lquote You }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 know}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  we\rquote 
re not sup\-posed to do spells outside school \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote Bit rich coming from you,\rquote  said Harry, staring at the floating car.
\par \lquote Oh, this doesn\rquote t count,\rquote  said Ron. \lquote We\rquote re only borrowing this, it\rquote s Dad\rquote s, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 we}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  didn\rquote t enchant it. But doing magic in front of those Muggles you live with ...\rquote 
\par \lquote I told you, I didn\rquote t \endash  but it\rquote ll take too long to explain now. Look, can you explain to them at Hogwarts that the Dursleys have locked me up and won\rquote t let me come back, and obviously I can\rquote 
t magic myself out, because the Ministry\rquote ll think that\rquote s the second spell I\rquote ve done in three days, so \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote Stop gibbering,\rquote  said Ron, \lquote we\rquote ve come to take you home with us.\rquote 
\par \lquote But you can\rquote t magic me out either \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote We don\rquote t need to,\rquote  said Ron, jerking his head towards the front seats and grinning. \lquote You forget who I\rquote ve got with me.\rquote 
\par \lquote Tie that round the bars,\rquote  said Fred, throwing the end of a rope to Harry.
\par \lquote If the Dursleys wake up, I\rquote m dead,\rquote  said Harry, as he tied the rope tightly around a bar and Fred revved up the car.
\par \lquote Don\rquote t worry,\rquote  said Fred, \lquote and stand back.\rquote 
\par Harry moved back into the shadows next to Hedwig, who seemed to have realised how important this was and kept still and silent. The car revved louder and louder and suddenly,
 with a crunching noise, the bars were pulled clean out of the window as Fred drove straight up in the air \endash 
 Harry ran back to the window to see the bars dangling a few feet above the ground. Panting, Ron hoisted them up into the car. Harry listened anxiously, but there was no sound from the Dursleys\rquote  bedroom.
\par When the bars were safely in the back seat with Ron, Fred reversed as close as possible to Harry\rquote s window.
\par \lquote Get in,\rquote  Ron said.
\par \lquote But all my Hogwarts stuff ... my wand ... my broomstick ...\rquote 
\par \lquote Where is it?\rquote 
\par \lquote Locked in the cupboard under the stairs, and I can\rquote t get out of this room \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote No problem,\rquote  said George from the front passenger seat. \lquote Out of the way, Harry.\rquote 
\par Fred and George climbed carefully through the window into Harry\rquote s room. You had to hand it to them, thought Harry, as George took an ordinary hairpin from his pocket and started to pick the lock.
\par \lquote A lot of wizards think it\rquote s a waste of time, knowing this sort of Muggle trick,\rquote  said Fred, \lquote but we feel they\rquote re skills worth learning, even if they are a bit slow.\rquote 
\par There was a small click and the door swung open.
\par \lquote So \endash  we\rquote ll get your trunk \endash  you grab anything you need from your room and hand it out to Ron,\rquote  whispered George.
\par \lquote Watch out for the bottom stair, it creaks,\rquote  Harry whispered back, as the twins disappeared onto the dark landing.
\par Harry dashed around his room, collecting his things together and passing them out of the window to Ron. Then he went to help Fred and George heave his trunk up the stairs. Harry heard Uncle Vernon cough.
\par At last, panting, they reached the landing, then carried the trunk through Harry\rquote 
s room to the open window. Fred climbed back into the car to pull with Ron, and Harry and George pushed from the bedroom side. Inch by inch, the trunk slid through the window.
\par Uncle Vernon coughed again.
\par \lquote A bit more,\rquote  panted Fred, who was pulling from inside the car, \lquote one good push ...\rquote 
\par Harry and George threw their shoulders against the trunk and it slid out of the window into the back seat of the car.
\par \lquote OK, let\rquote s go,\rquote  George whispered.
\par But as Harry climbed onto the windowsill there came a sudden loud screech from behind him, followed immediately by the thun\-der of Uncle Vernon\rquote s voice.
\par \lquote THAT RUDDY OWL!\rquote 
\par \lquote I\rquote ve forgotten Hedwig!\rquote 
\par Harry tore back across the room as the landing light clicked on. He snatched up Hedwig\rquote s cage, dashed to the window and passed it out to Ron. He was scrambling back onto the chest of drawers when Uncle Vernon hammered on the unlocked door \endash 
 and it crashed open.
\par For a split second, Uncle Vernon stood framed in the doorway; then he let out a bellow like an angry bull and dived at Harry, grabbing him by the ankle.
\par Ron, Fred and George seized Harry\rquote s arms and pulled as hard as they could.
\par \lquote Petunia!\rquote  roared Uncle Vernon. \lquote He\rquote s getting away! HE\rquote S GET\-TING AWAY!\rquote 
\par The Weasleys gave a gigantic tug and Harry\rquote s leg slid out of Uncle Vernon\rquote s grasp. As soon as Harry was in the car and had slammed the door shut, Ron yelled, \lquote Put your foot down, Fred!\rquote  and the car shot suddenly
 towards the moon.
\par Harry couldn\rquote t believe it \endash  he was free. He wound down the window, the night air whipping his hair, and looked back at the shrinking rooftops of Privet Drive. Uncle Vernon, Aunt Petunia and Dudley were all hanging, dumbstruck, out of Harry
\rquote s window.
\par \lquote See you next summer!\rquote  Harry yelled.
\par The Weasleys roared with laughter and Harry settled back in his seat, grinning from ear to ear.
\par \lquote Let Hedwig out,\rquote  he told Ron, \lquote she can fly behind us. She hasn\rquote t had a chance to stretch her wings for ages.\rquote 
\par George handed the hairpin to Ron and a moment later, Hedwig had soared joyfully out of the window to glide alongside them like a ghost.
\par \lquote So \endash  what\rquote s the story, Harry?\rquote  said Ron impatiently. \lquote What\rquote s been happening?\rquote 
\par Harry told them all about Dobby, the warning he\rquote d given Harry and the fiasco of the violet pudding. There was a long shocked silence when he had finished.
\par \lquote Very fishy,\rquote  said Fred finally.
\par \lquote Definitely dodgy,\rquote  agreed George. \lquote So he wouldn\rquote t even tell you who\rquote s supposed to be plotting all this stuff?\rquote 
\par \lquote I don\rquote t think he could,\rquote  said Harry. \lquote I told you, every time he got close to letting something slip, he started banging his head against the wall.\rquote 
\par He saw Fred and George look at each other.
\par \lquote What, you think he was lying to me?\rquote  said Harry.
\par \lquote Well,\rquote  said Fred, \lquote put it this way \endash  house-elves have got power\-ful magic of their own, but they can\rquote t usually use it without their masters\rquote 
 permission. I reckon old Dobby was sent to stop you coming back to Hogwarts. Someone\rquote s idea of a joke. Can you think of anyone at school with a grudge against you?\rquote 
\par \lquote Yes,\rquote  said Harry and Ron together, instantly.
\par \lquote Draco Malfoy,\rquote  Harry explained. \lquote He hates me.\rquote 
\par \lquote Draco Malfoy?\rquote  said George, turning round. \lquote Not Lucius Malfoy\rquote s son?\rquote 
\par \lquote Must be, it\rquote s not a very common name, is it?\rquote  said Harry. \lquote Why?\rquote 
\par \lquote I\rquote ve heard Dad talking about him,\rquote  said George. \lquote He was a big supporter of You Know Who.\rquote 
\par \lquote And when You Know Who disappeared,\rquote  said Fred, craning around to look at Harry, \lquote Lucius Malfoy came back saying he\rquote d never meant any of it. Load of dung \endash  Dad reckons he was right in You Know Who\rquote s inner circle.
\rquote 
\par Harry had heard these rumours about Malfoy\rquote s family before, and they didn\rquote t surprise him at all. Draco Malfoy made Dudley Dursley look like a kind, thoughtful and sensitive boy.
\par \lquote I don\rquote t know whether the Malfoys own a house-elf ...\rquote  said Harry.
\par \lquote Well, whoever owns him will be an old wizarding family, and they\rquote ll be rich,\rquote  said Fred.
\par \lquote Yeah, Mum\rquote s always wishing we had a house-elf to do the iron\-ing,\rquote  said George. \lquote But all we\rquote ve got is a lousy 
old ghoul in the attic and gnomes all over the garden. House-elves come with big old manors and castles and places like that, you wouldn\rquote t catch one in our house ...\rquote 
\par Harry was silent. Judging by the fact that Draco Malfoy usually had the best of everythin
g, his family was rolling in wizard gold; he could just see Malfoy strutting around a large manor house. Sending the family servant to stop Harry going back to Hogwarts also sounded exactly like the sort of thing Malfoy would do. Had Harry been stupid to 
take Dobby seriously?
\par \lquote I\rquote m glad we came to get you, anyway,\rquote  said Ron. \lquote I was getting really worried when you didn\rquote t answer any of my letters. I thought it was Errol\rquote s fault at first \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote Who\rquote s Errol?\rquote 
\par \lquote Our owl. He\rquote s ancient. It wouldn\rquote t be the first time he\rquote d col\-lapsed on a delivery. So then I tried to borrow Hermes \endash \rquote 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Who?\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par \lquote The owl Mum and Dad bought Percy when he was made a pre\-fect,\rquote  said Fred from the front.
\par \lquote But Percy wouldn\rquote t lend him to me,\rquote  said Ron. \lquote Said he needed him.\rquote 
\par \lquote Percy\rquote s been acting very oddly this summer,\rquote  said George, frowning. \lquote And he }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 has}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  been sending a lot of letters and spending a load of time shut up in his room ... I mean, there\rquote s only so many times you can polish a prefect badge ... You\rquote re driving too far west, Fred,
\rquote  he added, pointing at a compass on the dashboard. Fred twiddled the steering wheel.
\par \lquote So, does your dad know you\rquote ve got the car?\rquote  said Harry, guess\-ing the answer.
\par \lquote Er, no,\rquote  said Ron, \lquote he had to work tonight. Hopefully we\rquote ll be able to get it back in the garage without Mum noticing we flew it.\rquote 
\par \lquote What does your dad do at the Ministry of Magic, anyway?\rquote 
\par \lquote He works in the most boring department,\rquote  said Ron. \lquote The Misuse of Muggle Artefacts Office.\rquote 
\par \lquote The }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 what?\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par \lquote It\rquote 
s all to do with bewitching things that are Muggle-made, you know, in case they end up back in a Muggle shop or house. Like, last year, some old witch died and her tea set was sold to an antiques shop. This Muggle woman bought it, took it home and tried t
o serve her friends tea in it. It was a nightmare \endash  Dad was working overtime for weeks.\rquote 
\par \lquote What happened?\rquote 
\par \lquote The teapot went berserk and squirted boiling tea all over the place and one man ended up in hospital with the sugar tongs clamped to his nose. Dad was going frantic, it\rquote 
s only him and an old warlock called Perkins in the office, and they had to do Memory Charms and all sorts to cover it up ...\rquote 
\par \lquote But your dad ... this car ...\rquote 
\par Fred laughed. \lquote Yeah, Dad\rquote s mad about everything to do with Muggles, our shed\rquote s full of Muggle stuff. He takes it apart, puts spells on it and puts it back together again. If he raided our house he\rquote 
d have to put himself straight under arrest. It drives Mum mad.\rquote 
\par \lquote That\rquote s the main road,\rquote  said George, peering down through the windscreen. \lquote We\rquote ll be there in ten minutes ... just as well, it\rquote s get\-ting light ...\rquote 
\par A faint pinkish glow was visible along the horizon to the east.
\par Fred brought the car lower and Harry saw a dark patchwork of fields and clumps of trees.
\par \lquote We\rquote re a little way outside the village,\rquote  said George. \lquote Ottery St Catchpole ...\rquote 
\par Lower and lower went the flying car. The edge of a brilliant red sun was now gleaming through the trees.
\par \lquote Touchdown!\rquote  said Fred as, with a slight bump, they hit the ground. They had landed next to a tumbledown garage in a small yard and Harry looked out for the first time at Ron\rquote s house.
\par It looked as though it had once been a large stone pigsty, but extra rooms had been added here and there until it was several storeys high and so crooked it looked as th
ough it was held up by magic (which, Harry reminded himself, it probably was). Four or five chimneys were perched on top of the red roof. A lop-sided sign stuck in the ground near the entrance read \lquote The Burrow\rquote 
. Round the front door lay a jumble of wellington boots and a very rusty cauldron. Several fat brown chickens were pecking their way around the yard.
\par \lquote It\rquote s not much,\rquote  said Ron.
\par \lquote It\rquote s }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 brilliant,\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
 said Harry happily, thinking of Privet Drive.
\par They got out of the car.
\par \lquote Now, we\rquote ll go upstairs really quietly,\rquote  said Fred, \lquote and wait for Mum to call us for breakfast. Then Ron, you come bounding downstairs going, \lquote Mum, look who turned up in the night!\rquote  and she\rquote 
ll be all pleased to see Harry and no one need ever know we flew the car.\rquote 
\par \lquote Right,\rquote  said Ron. \lquote Come on, Harry, I sleep at the \endash \rquote 
\par Ron had gone a nasty greenish colour, his eyes fixed on the house. The other three wheeled around.
\par Mrs Weasley was marching across the yard, scattering chickens, and for a short, plump, kind-faced woman, it was remarkable how much she looked like a sabre-toothed tiger.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Ah,\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  said Fred.
\par \lquote Oh dear,\rquote  said George.
\par Mrs Weasley came to a halt in front of them, her hands on her hips, staring from one guilty face to the next. She was wearing a flowered apron with a wand sticking out of the pocket.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote So,\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  she said.
\par \lquote Morning, Mum,\rquote  said George, in what he clearly thought was a jaunty, winning voice.
\par \lquote Have you any idea how worried I\rquote ve been?\rquote  said Mrs Weasley in a deadly whisper.
\par \lquote Sorry, Mum, but see, we had to \endash \rquote 
\par All three of Mrs Weasley\rquote s sons were taller than she was, but they cowered as her rage broke over them.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Beds empty! No note! Car gone ... could have crashed ... out of my mind with worry ... did you care? ... never, as long as I\rquote 
ve lived ... you wait until your father gets home, we never had trouble like this from Bill or Charlie or Percy ...\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par \lquote Perfect Percy,\rquote  muttered Fred.
\par \lquote YOU COULD DO WITH TAKING A LEAF OUT OF PERCY\rquote S BOOK!\rquote  yelled Mrs Weasley, prodding a finger in Fred\rquote s chest. \lquote You could have }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 died,
}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  you could have been }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 seen,}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  you could have lost your father his }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 job }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \endash \rquote 
\par It seemed to go on for hours. Mrs Weasley had shouted herself hoarse before she turned on Harry, who backed away.
\par \lquote I\rquote m very pleased to see you, Harry, dear,\rquote  she said, \lquote Come in and have some breakfast.\rquote 
\par She turned and walked back into the house and Harry, after a nervous glance at Ron, who nodded encouragingly, followed her.
\par The kitchen was small and rather cramped. There was a scrubbed wooden table and chairs in the middle and Harry sat down on the edge of his seat, looking around. He had never been in a wizard house before.
\par The clock on the wall opposite him had only one hand and no numbers at all. Written around the edge were things like \lquote Time to make tea\rquote , \lquote Time to feed the chickens\rquote  and \lquote You\rquote re late\rquote . Books w
ere stacked three deep on the mantelpiece, books with titles like }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Charm Your Own Cheese, Enchantment in Baking }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 and }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 One Minute Feasts \endash  It\rquote s Magic!}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  And unless Harry\rquote s ears were deceiving him, the old radio next to the sink had just announced that coming up was \lquote Witching Hour, with the popular singing sorceress, Celestina Warbeck
\rquote .
\par Mrs Weasley was clattering around, cooking breakfast a little haphazardly, throwing dirty looks at her sons as she threw sausages into the frying pan. Every now and then she muttered things like \lquote don\rquote t know }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 
\ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 what}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  you were thinking of\rquote  and }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote never}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  would have believed it\rquote .
\par \lquote I don\rquote t blame }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 you,}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  dear,\rquote 
 she assured Harry, tipping eight or nine sausages onto his plate. \lquote Arthur and I have been worried about you, too. Just last night we were saying we\rquote d come and get you ourselves if you hadn\rquote t written back to Ron by Friday. But really
\rquote  (she was now adding three fried eggs to his plate), \lquote flying an illegal car halfway across the country \endash  anyone could have seen you \endash \rquote 
\par She flicked her wand casually at the washing-up in the sink, which began to clean itself, clinking gently in the background.
\par \lquote It was }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 cloudy,}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Mum!\rquote  said Fred.
\par \lquote You keep your mouth closed while you\rquote re eating!\rquote  Mrs Weasley snapped.
\par \lquote They were starving him, Mum!\rquote  said George.
\par \lquote And you!\rquote  said Mrs Weasley, but it was with a slightly softened expression that she started cutting Harry bread and buttering it for him.
\par At that moment, there was a diversion in the form of a small, red-headed figure in a long nightdress, who appeared in the kitchen, gave a small squeal, and ran out again.
\par \lquote Ginny,\rquote  said Ron in an undertone to Harry. \lquote My sister. She\rquote s been talking about you all summer.\rquote 
\par \lquote Yeah, she\rquote ll be wanting your autograph, Harry,\rquote  grinned Fred, but he caught his mother\rquote 
s eye and bent his face over his plate without another word. Nothing more was said until all four plates were clean, which took a surprisingly short time.
\par \lquote Blimey, I\rquote m tired,\rquote  yawned Fred, setting down his knife and fork at last. \lquote I think I\rquote ll go to bed and \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote You will not,\rquote  snapped Mrs Weasley. \lquote It\rquote s your own fault you\rquote ve been up all night. You\rquote re going to de-gnome the garden for me, they\rquote re getting completely out of hand again.\rquote 
\par \lquote Oh, Mum \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote And you two,\rquote  she said, glaring at Ron and George. \lquote You can go up to bed, dear,\rquote  she added to Harry. \lquote You didn\rquote t ask them to fly that wretched car.\rquote 
\par But Harry, who felt wide awake, said quickly, \lquote I\rquote ll help Ron, I\rquote ve never seen a de-gnoming \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote That\rquote s very sweet of you, dear, but it\rquote s dull work,\rquote  said Mrs Weasley. \lquote Now, let\rquote s see what Lockhart\rquote s got to say on the subject.\rquote 
\par And she pulled a heavy book from the stack on the mantel\-piece. George groaned.
\par \lquote Mum, we know how to de-gnome a garden.\rquote 
\par Harry looked at the cover of Mrs Weasley\rquote s book. Written across it in fancy gold letters were the words: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Gilderoy Lockhart\rquote s Guide to Household Pests.}{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
 There was a big photograph on the front of a very good-looking wizard with wavy blond hair and bright blue eyes. As always in the wizarding world, the photograph was moving; the wizard
, who Harry supposed was Gilderoy Lockhart, kept winking cheekily up at them all. Mrs Weasley beamed down at him.
\par \lquote Oh, he is marvellous,\rquote  she said, \lquote he knows his household pests, all right, it\rquote s a wonderful book ...\rquote 
\par \lquote Mum fancies him,\rquote  said Fred, in a very audible whisper.
\par \lquote Don\rquote t be so ridiculous, Fred,\rquote  said Mrs Weasley, her cheeks rather pink. \lquote All right, if you think you know better than Lockhart, you can go and get on with it, and woe betide you if there\rquote 
s a single gnome in that garden when I come out to inspect it.\rquote 
\par Yawning and grumbling, the Weasleys slouched outside with Harry behind them. The garden was large and, in Harry\rquote s eyes, exactly what a garden should be. The Dursleys wouldn\rquote t have liked it \endash 
 there were plenty of weeds, and the grass needed cutting \endash  but there were gnarled trees all around the walls, plants Harry had never seen spilling from every flowerbed and a big green pond full of frogs.
\par \lquote Muggles have garden gnomes, too, you know,\rquote  Harry told Ron as they crossed the lawn.
\par \lquote Yeah, I\rquote ve seen those things they think are gnomes,\rquote  said Ron, bent double with his head in a peony bush. \lquote Like fat little Father Christmases with fishing rods ...\rquote 
\par There was a violent scuffling noise, the peony bush shuddered and Ron straightened up. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote This}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  is a gnome,\rquote  he said grimly.
\par \lquote Gerroff me! Gerroff me!\rquote  squealed the gnome.
\par It was certainly nothing like Father Christmas. It was small and leathery-looking, with a large, knobbly, bald head exactly like a potato. Ron held it at arm\rquote s length as it kicked out at him wit
h its horny little feet; he grasped it around the ankles and turned it upside-down.
\par \lquote This is what you have to do,\rquote  he said. He raised the gnome above his head (\lquote Gerroff me!\rquote ) and started to swing it in great cir\-cles like a lasso. Seeing the shocked look on Harry\rquote s face, Ron added, \lquote It doesn
\rquote t }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 hurt}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  them \endash  you\rquote 
ve just got to make them really dizzy so they can\rquote t find their way back to the gnomeholes.\rquote 
\par He let go of the gnome\rquote s ankles: it flew twenty feet into the air and landed with a thud in the field over the hedge.
\par \lquote Pitiful,\rquote  said Fred. \lquote I bet I can get mine beyond that stump.\rquote 
\par Harry learned quickly not to feel too sorry for the gnomes. He decided just to drop the first one he caught over the hedge, but the gnome, sensing weakness, sank its razor-sharp teeth into Harry\rquote s finger and he had a hard job shaking it off until 
\endash 
\par \lquote Wow, Harry \endash  that must\rquote ve been fifty feet ...\rquote 
\par The air was soon thick with flying gnomes.
\par \lquote See, they\rquote re not too bright,\rquote  said George, seizing five or six gnomes at once. \lquote The moment they know the de-gnoming\rquote s going on they storm up to have a look. You\rquote d think they\rquote 
d have learned by now just to stay put.\rquote 
\par Soon, the crowd of gnomes in the field started walking away in a straggling line, their little shoulders hunched.
\par \lquote They\rquote ll be back,\rquote  said Ron, as they watched the gnomes disap\-pear into the hedge on the other side of the field. \lquote They love it here ... Dad\rquote s too soft with them, he thinks they\rquote re funny ...\rquote 
\par Just then, the front door slammed.
\par \lquote He\rquote s back!\rquote  said George. \lquote Dad\rquote s home!\rquote 
\par They hurried through the garden and back into the house.
\par Mr Weasley was slumped in a kitchen chair with his glasses off and his eyes closed. He was a thin man, going bald, but the little hair he had was as red as any of his children\rquote s. He was wearing long green robes which were dusty and travel-worn.

\par \lquote What a night,\rquote  he mumbled, groping for the teapot as they all sat down around him. \lquote Nine raids. Nine! And old Mundungus Fletcher tried to put a hex on me when I had my back turned ...\rquote 
\par Mr Weasley took a long gulp of tea and sighed.
\par \lquote Find anything, Dad?\rquote  said Fred eagerly.
\par \lquote All I got were a few shrinking door-keys and a biting kettle,\rquote  yawned Mr Weasley. \lquote There was some pretty nasty stuff that wasn\rquote t my department, though. Mortlake was taken away for questioning
 about some extremely odd ferrets, but that\rquote s the Committee on Experimental Charms, thank goodness ...\rquote 
\par \lquote Why would anyone bother making door-keys shrink?\rquote  said George.
\par \lquote Just Muggle-baiting,\rquote  sighed Mr Weasley. \lquote Sell them a key that keeps shrinking to nothing so they can never find it when they need it ... Of course, it\rquote 
s very hard to convict anyone because no Muggle would admit their key keeps shrinking \endash  they\rquote ll insist they just keep losing it. Bless them, they\rquote ll go to any lengths to ignore magic, even if it\rquote 
s staring them in the face ... but the things our lot have taken to enchanting, you wouldn\rquote t believe \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote LIKE CARS, FOR INSTANCE?\rquote 
\par Mrs Weasley had appeared, holding a long poker like a sword. Mr Weasley\rquote s eyes jerked open. He stared guiltily at his wife.
\par \lquote C-cars, Molly, dear?\rquote 
\par \lquote Yes, Arthur, cars,\rquote  said Mrs Weasley, her eyes flashing. \lquote Imagine a wizard buying a rusty old car and telling his wife all he wanted to do with it was take it apart to see how it worked, while }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 really}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  he was enchanting it to make it }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 fly.\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par Mr Weasley blinked.
\par \lquote Well, dear, I think you\rquote ll find that he would be quite within the law to do that, even if, er, he maybe would have done better to, um, tell his wife the truth ... There\rquote s a loophole in the law, you\rquote ll find ... as long as he wa
sn\rquote t }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 intending}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  to fly the car, the fact that the car }{\rtlch\fcs1 
\ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 could}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  fly wouldn\rquote t \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote Arthur Weasley, you made sure there was a loophole when you wrote that law!\rquote  shouted Mrs Weasley. \lquote Just so you could carry on tinkering with all that Muggle rubbish in your shed! A
nd for your information, Harry arrived this morning in the car you weren\rquote t intending to fly!\rquote 
\par \lquote Harry?\rquote  said Mr Weasley blankly. \lquote Harry who?\rquote 
\par He looked around, saw Harry and jumped.
\par \lquote Good Lord, is it Harry Potter? Very pleased to meet you, Ron\rquote s told us so much about \endash \rquote 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Your sons flew that car to Harry\rquote s house and back last night!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  shouted Mrs Weasley, \lquote What have you got to say about that, eh?\rquote 
\par \lquote Did you really?\rquote  said Mr Weasley eagerly. \lquote Did it go all right? I-I mean,\rquote  he faltered, as sparks flew from Mrs Weasley\rquote s eyes, \lquote that-that was very wrong, boys \endash  very wrong indeed ...\rquote 
\par \lquote Let\rquote s leave them to it,\rquote  Ron muttered to Harry, as Mrs Weasley swelled like a bullfrog. \lquote Come on, I\rquote ll show you my bedroom.\rquote 
\par They slipped out of the kitchen and down a narrow passagew
ay to an uneven staircase, which zigzagged its way up through the house. On the third landing, a door stood ajar. Harry just caught sight of a pair of bright brown eyes staring at him before it closed with a snap.
\par \lquote Ginny,\rquote  said Ron. \lquote You don\rquote t know how weird it is for her to be this shy, she never shuts up normally \endash \rquote 
\par They climbed two more flights until they reached a door with peeling paint and a small plaque on it, saying \lquote Ronald\rquote s Room\rquote .
\par Harry stepped in, his head almost touching the sloping ceiling, and blinked. It was like walking into a furnace: nearly everything in Ron\rquote s room seemed to be a violent shade of orange: the bed\-
spread, the walls, even the ceiling. Then Harry realised that Ron had covered nearly every inch of the shabby wallpaper with posters of the same seven witches and wizards, all wearing bright orange robes, carrying broomsticks and waving energetically.

\par \lquote Your Quidditch team?\rquote  said Harry.
\par \lquote The Chudley Cannons,\rquote  said Ron, pointing at the orange bed\-spread, which was emblazoned with two giant black }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 C}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 s and a speeding cannonball. \lquote Ninth in the league.\rquote 
\par Ron\rquote s school spellbooks were stacked untidily in a corner, next to a pile of comics which all seemed to feature }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 The Adventures of Martin Miggs, the Mad Muggle.
}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Ron\rquote s magic wand was lying on top of a fish tank full of frogspawn on the windowsill, next to his fat grey rat, Scabbers, who was snoozing in a patch of sun.

\par Harry stepped over a pack of Self-Shuffling playing cards on the floor and looked out of the tiny window. In the field far below he could see a gang of gnomes sneaking, one by one, back through the Weasleys\rquote 
 hedge. Then he turned to look at Ron, who was watching him almost nervously, as though waiting for his opinion.
\par \lquote It\rquote s a bit small,\rquote  said Ron quickly. \lquote Not like that room you had with the Muggles. And I\rquote m right underneath the ghoul in the attic, he\rquote s always banging on the pipes and groaning ...\rquote 
\par But Harry, grinning widely, said, \lquote This is the best house I\rquote ve ever been in.\rquote 
\par Ron\rquote s ears went pink.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \page 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \emdash  CHAPTER FOUR \emdash 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sa280\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs56 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs56\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 At Flourish and Blotts
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sa280\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
Life at The Burrow was as different as possible from life in Privet Drive. The Dursleys liked everything neat and ordered; the Weasleys\rquote  house burst with the strange and unexpected. Harry got a shock the first 
time he looked in the mirror over the kitchen mantelpiece and it shouted, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Tuck your shirt in, scruffy!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  The ghoul in the attic howled and dropped pipes whenever he felt things were getting too quiet, and small explosions from Fred and George\rquote s bedroom wer
e considered perfectly normal. What Harry found most unusual about life at Ron\rquote s, however, wasn\rquote t the talk\-ing mirror or the clanking ghoul: it was the fact that everybody there seemed to like him.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Mrs Weasley fussed over the state of his socks and tried t
o force him to eat fourth helpings at every meal. Mr Weasley liked Harry to sit next to him at the dinner table so that he could bombard him with questions about life with Muggles, asking him to explain how things like plugs and the postal service worked.

\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Fascinating!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
 he would say, as Harry talked him through using a telephone. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Ingenious,}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
 really, how many ways Muggles have found of getting along without magic.\rquote 
\par Harry heard from Hogwarts one sunny morning about a week after he had arrived at The Burrow. H
e and Ron went down to breakfast to find Mr and Mrs Weasley and Ginny already sitting at the kitchen table. The moment she saw Harry, Ginny accidentally knocked her porridge bowl to the floor with a loud clatter. Ginny seemed very prone to knocking things
 over whenever Harry entered a room. She dived under the table to retrieve the bowl and emerged with her face glowing like the setting sun. Pretending he hadn\rquote t noticed this, Harry sat down and took the toast Mrs Weasley offered him.
\par \lquote Letters from school,\rquote  said Mr Weasley, passing Harry and Ron identical envelopes of yellowish parchment, addressed in green ink. \lquote Dumbledore already knows you\rquote re here, Harry \endash  doesn\rquote 
t miss a trick, that man. You two\rquote ve got them, too,\rquote  he added, as Fred and George ambled in, still in their pyjamas.
\par For a few minutes there was silence as they all read their let\-ters. Harry\rquote s told him to catch the Hogwarts Express as usual from King\rquote s Cross station on September the first. There was also a list of the new books he\rquote 
d need for the coming year.
\par 
\par Second-year students will require:
\par 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi-284\li851\ri284\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin284\lin851\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 The Standard Book of Spells, Grade 2}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  by Miranda Goshawk
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Break with a Banshee}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  by Gilderoy Lockhart
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Gadding with Ghouls}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  by Gilderoy Lockhart
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Holidays with Hags}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  by Gilderoy Lockhart
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Travels with Trolls}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  by Gilderoy Lockhart
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Voyages with Vampires}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  by Gilderoy Lockhart
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Wanderings with Werewolves}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  by Gilderoy Lockhart
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Year with the Yeti}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  by Gilderoy Lockhart
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Fred, who had finished his own list, peered over at Harry\rquote s.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote You\rquote ve been told to get all Lockhart\rquote s books, too!\rquote  he said. 
\lquote The new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher must be a fan \endash  bet it\rquote s a witch.\rquote 
\par At this point, Fred caught his mother\rquote s eye and quickly busied himself with the marmalade.
\par \lquote That lot won\rquote t come cheap,\rquote  said George, with a quick look at his parents. \lquote Lockhart\rquote s books are really expensive ...\rquote 
\par \lquote Well, we\rquote ll manage,\rquote  said Mrs Weasley, but she looked worried. \lquote I expect we\rquote ll be able to pick up a lot of Ginny\rquote s things second-hand.\rquote 
\par \lquote Oh, are you starting at Hogwarts this year?\rquote  Harry asked Ginny.
\par She nodded, blushing to the roots of her flaming hair, and put her elbow in the butter dish. Fortunately no one saw this except Harry, because just then Ron\rquote 
s elder brother Percy walked in. He was already dressed, his Hogwarts prefect badge pinned to his knitted tank top.
\par \lquote Morning, all,\rquote  said Percy briskly. \lquote Lovely day.\rquote 
\par He sat down in the only remaining chair but leapt up again almost immediately, pulling from underneath him a moulting, grey feather duster \endash  at least, that was what Harry thought it was, until he saw that it was breathing.
\par \lquote Errol!\rquote  said Ron, taking the limp owl from Percy and extracting a letter from under its wing. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Finally}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  \endash  he\rquote s got Hermione\rquote s answer. I wrote to her saying we were going to try and rescue you from the Dursleys.\rquote 
\par He carried Errol to a perch just inside the back door and tried to stand him on it, but Errol flopped straight off again so Ron laid him on the draining board instead, muttering, \lquote Pathetic.\rquote  Then he ripped open Hermione\rquote 
s letter and read it out loud:
\par 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li284\ri284\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin284\lin284\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Dear Ron, and Harry if you\rquote re there,}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li284\ri284\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin284\lin284\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 I hope everything went all right and that Harry is OK and that you didn\rquote 
t do anything illegal to get him out, Ron, because that would get Harry into trouble, too. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 I\rquote ve }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 been really worried and if Harry is all right, will you please let me know at once, but perhaps it }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 would }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 be better if you used a different owl, because I think another delivery might finish your one off.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 I\rquote m very busy with school work, of course}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  \endash  \lquote How }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 can}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  she be?\rquote  said Ron in horror. \lquote We\rquote re on holiday!\rquote  
\endash  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 and we\rquote re going to London next Wednesday to buy my new books. Why don\rquote t we meet in Diagon Alley?}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Let me know what\rquote s happening as soon as you can, love from Hermione.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Well, that fits in nicely, we can go and get all your things then, too,\rquote 
 said Mrs Weasley, starting to clear the table. \lquote What\rquote re you all up to today?\rquote 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
Harry, Ron, Fred and George were planning to go up the hill to a small paddock the Weasleys owned. It was surrounded by trees that blocked it from view of the village below, meaning that they could practise Quidditch there, as long as they didn\rquote 
t fly too high. They couldn\rquote t use real Quidditch balls, which would have been hard to explain if they had escaped and flown away over the vil\-lage; instead they threw apples for each other to catch. They took it in turns to ride Harry\rquote 
s Nimbus Two Thousand, which was easi\-ly the best broom; Ron\rquote s old Shooting Star was often outstripped by passing butterflies.
\par Five minutes later they were marching up the hill, broomsticks over their shoulders. They had asked Perc
y if he wanted to join them, but he had said he was busy. Harry had only seen Percy at meal-times so far; he stayed shut in his room the rest of the time.
\par \lquote Wish I knew what he was up to,\rquote  said Fred, frowning. \lquote He\rquote s not himself. His exam results came the day before you did; twelve O.W.Ls and he hardly gloated at all.\rquote 
\par \lquote Ordinary Wizarding Levels,\rquote  George explained, seeing Harry\rquote s puzzled look. \lquote Bill got twelve, too. If we\rquote re not careful, we\rquote ll have another Head Boy in the family. I don\rquote t think I could stand the shame.
\rquote 
\par Bill was the oldest Weasley brother. He and the next brother, Charlie, had already left Hogwarts. Harry had never met either of them, but knew that Charlie was in Romania, studying dragons, and Bill in Egypt, working for the wizards\rquote  bank, Gring
otts.
\par \lquote Dunno how Mum and Dad are going to afford all our school stuff this year,\rquote  said George after a while. \lquote Five sets of Lockhart books! And Ginny needs robes and a wand and everything ...\rquote 
\par Harry said nothing. He felt a bit awkward. Stored in an under\-ground vault at Gringotts in London was a small fortune that his parents had left him. Of course, it was only in the wizarding world that he had money; you couldn\rquote 
t use Galleons, Sickles and Knuts in Muggle shops. He had never mentioned his Gringotts bank account to the Dursleys; he didn\rquote t think their horror of any\-thing connected with magic would stretch to a large pile of gold.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 *
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
Mrs Weasley woke them all early the following Wednesday. After a quick half-a-dozen bacon sandwiches each, they pulled on their coats and Mrs Weasley took a flowerpot off the kitchen mantel\-piece and peered inside.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote We\rquote re running low, Arthur,\rquote  she sighed. \lquote We\rquote 
ll have to buy some more today ... ah well, guests first! After you, Harry dear!\rquote 
\par And she offered him the flowerpot.
\par Harry stared at them all watching him.
\par \lquote W-what am I supposed to do?\rquote  he stammered.
\par \lquote He\rquote s never travelled by Floo powder,\rquote  said Ron suddenly. \lquote Sorry, Harry, I forgot.\rquote 
\par \lquote Never?\rquote  said Mr Weasley. \lquote But how did you get to Diagon Alley to buy your school things last year?\rquote 
\par \lquote I went on the Underground \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote Really?\rquote  said Mr Weasley eagerly. \lquote Were there }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 escapators?}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
 How exactly \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote Not }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 now,}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Arthur,\rquote  said Mrs Weasley. \lquote Floo powder\rquote 
s a lot quick\-er, dear, but goodness me, if you\rquote ve never used it before \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote He\rquote ll be all right, Mum,\rquote  said Fred. \lquote Harry, watch us first.\rquote 
\par He took a pinch of glittering powder out of the flowerpot, stepped up to the fire and threw the powder into the flames.
\par With a roar, the fire turned emerald green and rose higher than Fred, who stepped right into it, shouted, \lquote Diagon Alley!\rquote  and van\-ished.
\par \lquote You must speak clearly, dear,\rquote  Mrs Weasley told Harry, as George dipped his hand into the flowerpot. \lquote And mind you get out at the right grate ...\rquote 
\par \lquote The right what?\rquote  said Harry nervously, as the fire roared and whipped George out of sight too.
\par \lquote Well, there are an awful lot of wizard fires to choose from, you know, but as long as you\rquote ve spoken clearly \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote He\rquote ll be fine, Molly, don\rquote t fuss,\rquote  said Mr Weasley, helping him\-self to Floo powder too.
\par \lquote But dear, if he got lost, how would we ever explain to his aunt and uncle?\rquote 
\par \lquote They wouldn\rquote t mind,\rquote  Harry reassured her. \lquote Dudley would think it was a brilliant joke if I got lost up a chimney, don\rquote t worry about that.\rquote 
\par \lquote Well ... all right ... you go after Arthur,\rquote  said Mrs Weasley. \lquote Now, when you get into the fire, say where you\rquote re going \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote And keep your elbows tucked in,\rquote  Ron advised.
\par \lquote And your eyes shut,\rquote  said Mrs Weasley. \lquote The soot \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote Don\rquote t fidget,\rquote  said Ron. \lquote Or you might well fall out of the wrong fireplace \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote But don\rquote t panic and get out too early, wait until you see Fred and George.\rquote 
\par Trying hard to bear all this in mind, Harry took a pinch of Floo powder and walked to the edge of the fire. He took a deep breath, scattered the powder into the flames and step
ped forward; the fire felt like a warm breeze; he opened his mouth and immediately swallowed a lot of hot ash.
\par \lquote D-Dia-gon Alley,\rquote  he coughed.
\par It felt as though he was being sucked down a giant plug hole. He seemed to be spinning very fast ... the roaring i
n his ears was deafening ... he tried to keep his eyes open but the whirl of green flames made him feel sick ... something hard knocked his elbow and he tucked it in tightly, still spinning and spinning ... now it felt as though cold hands were slapping h
is face ... squinting through his glasses he saw a blurred stream of fireplaces and snatched glimpses of the rooms beyond ... his bacon sandwiches were churning inside him ... He closed his eyes again wishing it would stop, and then \endash 
 he fell, face forward, onto cold stone and felt his glasses shatter.
\par Dizzy and bruised, covered in soot, he got gingerly to his feet, holding his broken glasses up to his eyes. He was quite alone, but }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 where}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 
\ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  he was, he had no idea. All he could tell was that he was standing in the stone fireplace of what looked like a large, dimly lit wizard\rquote s shop \endash 
 but nothing in here was ever likely to be on a Hogwarts school list.
\par A glass case nearby held a withered hand on a cushion, a blood-stained pack of cards and a staring glass eye. Evi
l-looking masks leered down from the walls, an assortment of human bones lay upon the counter and rusty, spiked instruments hung from the ceiling. Even worse, the dark, narrow street Harry could see through the dusty shop window was definitely not Diagon 
Alley.
\par The sooner he got out of here, the better. Nose still stinging where it had hit the hearth, Harry made his way swiftly and silent\-ly towards the door, but before he\rquote d got halfway towards it, two people appeared on the other side of the glass 
\endash  and one of them was the very last person Harry wanted to meet when he was lost, covered in soot and wearing broken glasses: Draco Malfoy.
\par Harry looked quickly around and spotted a large black cabinet to his left; he shot inside it and pulled the doors to, leaving a small crack to peer through. Seconds later, a bell clanged, and Malfoy stepped into the shop.
\par The man who followed could only be his father. He had the same pale, pointed face and identical cold grey eyes. Mr Malfoy crossed the shop, looking lazily at the items on display, and rang a bell on the counter before turning to his son and saying, 
\lquote Touch nothing, Draco.\rquote 
\par Malfoy, who had reached for the glass eye, said, \lquote I thought you were going to buy me a present.\rquote 
\par \lquote I said I would buy you a racing broom,\rquote  said his father, drum\-ming his fingers on the counter.
\par \lquote What\rquote s the good of that if I\rquote m not in the house team?\rquote  said Malfoy, looking sulky and bad-tempered. \lquote Harry Potter got a Nimbus Two Thousand last year. Special permission from Dumbledore so he could play 
for Gryffindor. He\rquote s not even that good, it\rquote s just because he\rquote s }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 famous}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  ... famous for having a stupid }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 scar}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  on his forehead ...\rquote 
\par Malfoy bent down to examine a shelf full of skulls.
\par \lquote ... everyone thinks he\rquote s so }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 smart,}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  wonderful }{\rtlch\fcs1 
\ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Potter}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  with his }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 scar}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  and his }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 broomstick}{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  \endash 
\par \lquote You have told me this at least a dozen times already,\rquote  said Mr Malfoy, with a quelling look at his son, \lquote and I would remind you that it is not \endash  prudent \endash 
 to appear less than fond of Harry Potter, not when most of our kind regard him as the hero who made the Dark Lord disappear \endash  ah, Mr Borgin.\rquote 
\par A stooping man had appeared behind the counter, smoothing his greasy hair back from his face.
\par \lquote Mr Malfoy, what a pleasure to see you again,\rquote  said Mr Borgin in a voice as oily as his hair. \lquote Delighted \endash  and young Master Malfoy, too \endash 
 charmed. How may I be of assistance? I must show you, just in today, and very reasonably priced \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote I\rquote m not buying today, Mr Borgin, but selling,\rquote  said Mr Malfoy.
\par \lquote Selling?\rquote  The smile faded slightly from Mr Borgin\rquote s face.
\par \lquote You have heard, of course, that the Ministry is conducting more raids,\rquote  said Mr Malfoy, taking a roll of parchment from his inside pocket and unravelling it for Mr Borgin to read. \lquote I have a few \endash  ah \endash 
 items at home that might embarrass me, if the Ministry were to call ...\rquote 
\par Mr Borgin fixed a pince-nez to his nose and looked down the list.
\par \lquote The Ministry wouldn\rquote t presume to trouble you, sir, surely?\rquote 
\par Mr Malfoy\rquote s lip curled.
\par \lquote I have not been visited yet. The name Malfoy still commands a certain respect, yet the Ministry grows ever more meddlesome. There are rumours about a new Muggle Protection Act \endash 
 no doubt that flea-bitten, Muggle-loving fool Arthur Weasley is behind it \endash \rquote 
\par Harry felt a hot surge of anger.
\par \lquote \endash  and as you see, certain of these poisons might make it }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 appear}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \endash \rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par \lquote I understand, sir, of course,\rquote  said Mr Borgin. \lquote Let me see ...\rquote 
\par \lquote Can I have }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 that?\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
 interrupted Draco, pointing at the withered hand on its cushion.
\par \lquote Ah, the Hand of Glory!\rquote  said Mr Borgin, abandoning Mr Malfoy\rquote s list and scurrying over to Draco. \lquote Insert a candle and it gives light only to the holder! Best friend of thieves and plunder\-ers! Your son has fine taste, sir.
\rquote 
\par \lquote I hope my son will amount to more than a thief or a plunderer, Borgin,\rquote  said Mr Malfoy coldly and Mr Borgin said quickly, \lquote No offence, sir, no offence meant \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote Though if his school marks don\rquote t pick up,\rquote  said Mr Malfoy, more coldly still, \lquote that may indeed be all he is fit for.\rquote 
\par \lquote It\rquote s not my fault,\rquote  retorted Draco. \lquote The teachers all have favourites, that Hermione Granger \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote I would have thought you\rquote d be ashamed that a girl of no wiz\-ard family beat you in every exam,\rquote  snapped Mr Malfoy.
\par \lquote Ha!\rquote  said Harry under his breath, pleased to see Draco looking both abashed and angry.
\par \lquote It\rquote s the same all over,\rquote  said Mr Borgin, in his oily voice. \lquote Wizard blood is counting for less everywhere \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote Not with me,\rquote  said Mr Malfoy, his long nostrils flaring.
\par \lquote No, sir, nor with me, sir,\rquote  said Mr Borgin, with a deep bow.
\par \lquote In that case, perhaps we can return to my list,\rquote  said Mr Malfoy shortly. \lquote I am in something of a hurry, Borgin, I have important business elsewhere today.\rquote 
\par They started to haggle. Harry watched nervously as Draco drew nearer and nearer to his hiding place, examining the objects for sale. He paused to examine a long coil of hangman\rquote s ro
pe and to read, smirking, the card propped on a magnificent necklace of opals: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Caution: Do Not Touch. Cursed \endash 
 Has Claimed the Lives of Nineteen Muggle Owners to Date.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par Draco turned away and saw the cabinet right in front of him. He walked forward ... he stretched out his hand for the handle ...
\par \lquote Done,\rquote  said Mr Malfoy at the counter. \lquote Come, Draco!\rquote 
\par Harry wiped his forehead on his sleeve as Draco turned away.
\par \lquote Good day to you, Mr Borgin, I\rquote ll expect you at the manor tomorrow to pick up the goods.\rquote 
\par The moment the door had closed, Mr Borgin dropped his oily manner.
\par \lquote Good day yourself, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Mister}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Malfoy, and if the stories are true, you haven
\rquote t sold me half of what\rquote s hidden in your }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 manor }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 ...\rquote 
\par Muttering darkly, Mr Borgin disappeared into a back room. Harry waited for a minute in case he came back, then, quietly as he could, slipped out of the cabinet, past the glass cases and out of the shop door.
\par Clutching his broken glasses to his face he stared around. He had emerged into a dingy alleyway that seemed to be made up entirely of shops devoted to the Dark Arts. The one he\rquote 
d just left, Borgin and Burkes, looked like the largest, but opposite was a nasty window display of shrunken heads, and two doors down, a large cage was alive with gigantic black spiders. Two
 shabby-looking wizards were watching him from the shadow of a doorway, muttering to each other. Feeling jumpy, Harry set off, trying to hold his glasses on straight and hoping against hope he\rquote d be able to find a way out of there.
\par An old wooden street sign hanging over a shop selling poison\-ous candles told him he was in Knockturn Alley. This didn\rquote t help, as Harry had never heard of such a place. He supposed he hadn\rquote 
t spoken clearly enough through his mouthful of ashes back in the Weasleys\rquote  fire. Trying to stay calm, he wondered what to do.
\par \lquote Not lost are you, my dear?\rquote  said a voice in his ear, making him jump.
\par An aged witch stood in front of him, holding a tray of what looked horribly like whole human fingernails. She leered at him, showing mossy teeth. Harry backed away.
\par \lquote I\rquote m fine, thanks,\rquote  he said. \lquote I\rquote m just \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote HARRY! What d\rquote yeh think yer doin\rquote  down there?\rquote 
\par Harry\rquote s heart leapt. So did the witch; a load of fingernails cas\-caded down over her feet and she cursed as the massive form of Hagrid, the Hogwarts gamekeeper, came striding towards them, beetle-black eyes flashing over his great bristling beard.

\par \lquote Hagrid!\rquote  Harry croaked in relief. \lquote I was lost ... Floo powder ...\rquote 
\par Hagrid seized Harry by the scruff of the neck and pulled him away from the witch, knocking 
the tray right out of her hands. Her shrieks followed them all the way along the twisting alleyway out into bright sunlight. Harry saw a familiar, snow-white marble building in the distance: Gringotts bank. Hagrid had steered him right into Diagon Alley.

\par \lquote Yer a mess!\rquote  said Hagrid gruffly, brushing soot off Harry so forcefully he nearly knocked him into a barrel of dragon dung out\-side an apothecary\rquote s. \lquote Skulkin\rquote  around Knockturn Alley, I dunno \endash 
 dodgy place, Harry \endash  don\rquote  want no one ter see yeh down there \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote I realised }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 that,\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
 said Harry, ducking as Hagrid made to brush him off again. \lquote I told you, I was lost \endash  what were you doing down there, anyway?\rquote 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote I}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  was lookin\rquote  fer a Flesh-Eatin\rquote  Slug Repellent,\rquote 
 growled Hagrid. \lquote They\rquote re ruinin\rquote  the school cabbages. Yer not on yer own?\rquote 
\par \lquote I\rquote m staying with the Weasleys but we got separated,\rquote  Harry explained. \lquote I\rquote ve got to go and find them ...\rquote 
\par They set off together down the street.
\par \lquote How come yeh never wrote back ter me?\rquote  said Hagrid, as Harry jogged alongside him (he had to take three steps to every stride of Hagrid\rquote s enormous boots). Harry explained all about Dobby and the Dursleys.
\par \lquote Ruddy Muggles,\rquote  growled Hagrid. \lquote If I\rquote d\rquote ve known \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote Harry! Harry! Over here!\rquote 
\par Harry looked up and saw Hermione Granger standing at the top of the white flight of steps to Gringotts. She ran down to meet them, her bushy brown hair flying behind her.
\par \lquote What happened to your glasses? Hello, Hagrid ... Oh, it\rquote s }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 wonderful}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
 to see you two again ... Are you coming into Gringotts, Harry?\rquote 
\par \lquote As soon as I\rquote ve found the Weasleys,\rquote  said Harry.
\par \lquote Yeh won\rquote t have long ter wait,\rquote  grinned Hagrid.
\par Harry and Hermione looked around; sprinting up the crowded street were Ron, Fred, George, Percy and Mr Weasley.
\par \lquote Harry,\rquote  Mr Weasley panted. \lquote We }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 hoped}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  you\rquote 
d only gone one grate too far ...\rquote  He mopped his glistening bald patch. \lquote Molly\rquote s frantic \endash  she\rquote s coming now.\rquote 
\par \lquote Where did you come out?\rquote  Ron asked.
\par \lquote Knockturn Alley,\rquote  said Hagrid grimly.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Brilliant!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  said Fred and George together.
\par \lquote We\rquote ve never been allowed in,\rquote  said Ron enviously.
\par \lquote I should ruddy well think not,\rquote  growled Hagrid.
\par Mrs Weasley now came galloping into view, her handbag swinging wildly in one hand, Ginny just clinging onto the other.
\par \lquote Oh, Harry \endash  oh, my dear \endash  you could have been anywhere \endash \rquote 
\par Gasping for breath she pulled a large clothes brush out of her bag and began sweeping off the soot Hagrid hadn\rquote t managed to beat away. Mr Weasley took Harry\rquote s glasses, gave them a tap of his wand and returned them, good as new.
\par \lquote Well, gotta be off,\rquote  said Hagrid, who was having his hand wrung by Mrs Weasley (\lquote Knockturn Alley! If you hadn\rquote t found him, Hagrid!\rquote ). \lquote See yer at Hogwarts!\rquote 
 And he strode away, head and shoulders taller than anyone else in the packed street.
\par \lquote Guess who I saw in Borgin and Burkes?\rquote  Harry asked Ron and Hermione as they climbed the Gringotts steps. \lquote Malfoy and his father.\rquote 
\par \lquote Did Lucius Malfoy buy anything?\rquote  said Mr Weasley sharply behind them.
\par \lquote No, he was selling.\rquote 
\par \lquote So he\rquote s worried,\rquote  said Mr Weasley with grim satisfaction. \lquote Oh, I\rquote d love to get Lucius Malfoy for something ...\rquote 
\par \lquote You be careful, Arthur,\rquote  said Mrs Weasley sharply, as they were ushered into the bank by a bowing goblin at the door. \lquote That fami\-ly\rquote s trouble, don\rquote t go biting off more than you can chew.\rquote 
\par \lquote So you don\rquote t think I\rquote m a match for Lucius Malfoy?\rquote  said Mr Weasley indignantly, but he was distracted almost at once by the sight of Hermione\rquote 
s parents, who were standing nervously at the counter that ran all along the great marble hall, waiting for Hermione to introduce them.
\par \lquote But you\rquote re }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Muggles!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  said Mr Weasley delightedly. \lquote 
We must have a drink! What\rquote s that you\rquote ve got there? Oh, you\rquote re changing Muggle money. Molly, look!\rquote  He pointed excitedly at the ten-pound notes in Mr Granger\rquote s hand.
\par \lquote Meet you back here,\rquote  Ron said to Hermione, as the Weasleys and Harry were led off to their underground vaults by another Gringotts goblin.
\par The vaults were reached by means of small, goblin-driven carts that sped along miniature train-tracks through the bank\rquote s under\-ground tunnels. Harry enjoyed the breakneck journey down to the Weasleys\rquote 
 vault, but felt dreadful, far worse than he had in Knockturn Alley, when it was opened. There was a very small pile of silver Sickles inside, and just one gold Galleon. Mrs Weasley felt right into the corners before sweep
ing the whole lot into her bag. Harry felt even worse when they reached his vault. He tried to block the contents from view as he hastily shoved handfuls of coins into a leather bag.
\par Back outside on the marble steps, they all separated. Percy mut\-tered vag
uely about needing a new quill. Fred and George had spotted their friend from Hogwarts, Lee Jordan. Mrs Weasley and Ginny were going to a second-hand robe shop. Mr Weasley was insisting on taking the Grangers off to the Leaky Cauldron for a drink.
\par \lquote We\rquote ll all meet at Flourish and Blotts in an hour to buy your school books,\rquote  said Mrs Weasley, setting off with Ginny. \lquote And not one step down Knockturn Alley!\rquote  she shouted at the twins\rquote  retreat\-ing backs.
\par Harry, Ron and Hermione strolled off along the winding, cob\-bled street. The bag of gold, silver and bronze jangling cheerfully in Harry\rquote 
s pocket was clamouring to be spent, so he bought three large strawberry and peanut-butter ice-creams which they slurped happily as they wandered up the alley, examining the fasc
inating shop windows. Ron gazed longingly at a full set of Chudley Cannon robes in the windows of \lquote Quality Quidditch Supplies\rquote 
 until Hermione dragged them off to buy ink and parchment next door. In Gambol and Japes Wizarding Joke Shop, they met Fred, George and Lee Jordan, who were stocking up on \lquote Dr Filibuster\rquote s Fabulous Wet-Start, No-Heat Fireworks\rquote 
, and in a tiny junk shop full of broken wands, wonky brass scales and old cloaks covered in potion stains they found Percy, deeply immersed in a small and deeply boring book called }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Prefects Who Gained Power.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote A study of Hogwarts Prefects and their later careers,\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
 Ron read aloud off the back cover. \lquote That sounds }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 fascinating}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  ...\rquote 

\par \lquote Go away,\rquote  Percy snapped.
\par \lquote  \rquote Course, he\rquote s very ambitious, Percy, he\rquote s got it all planned out ... he wants to be Minister of Magic ...\rquote  Ron told Harry and Hermione in an undertone, as they left Percy to it.
\par An hour later, they headed for Flourish and Blotts. They were by no means the only ones making their way to the bookshop. As they appro
ached it, they saw to their surprise a large crowd jostling outside the doors, trying to get in. The reason for this was proclaimed by a large banner stretched across the upper windows:
\par 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 GILDEROY LOCKHART}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 will be signing copies of his autobiography}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par MAGICAL ME
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 today 12.30 \endash  4.30 pm}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote We can actually meet him!\rquote  Hermione squealed. \lquote I mean, he\rquote 
s written almost the whole booklist!\rquote 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 The crowd seemed to be made up mostly of witches around Mrs Weasley\rquote 
s age. A harassed-looking wizard stood at the door, saying, \lquote Calmly, please ladies ... don\rquote t push, there ... mind the books, now ...\rquote 
\par Harry, Ron and Hermione squeezed inside. A long queue wound right to the back of the shop, where Gilderoy Lockhart was signing his books. They each grabbed a copy of }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
Break with a Banshee,}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  and sneaked up the line to where the rest of the Weasleys were standing with Mr and Mrs Granger.
\par \lquote Oh, there you are, good,\rquote  said Mrs Weasley. She sounded breathless and kept patting her hair. \lquote We\rquote ll be able to see him in a minute ...\rquote 
\par Gilderoy Lockhart came slowly into view, seated at a table sur\-rounded by large pictures of his own face, all winking and flash\-
ing dazzlingly white teeth at the crowd. The real Lockhart was wearing robes of forget-me-not blue which exactly matched his eyes; his pointed wizard\rquote s hat was set at a jaunty angle on his wavy hair.
\par A short, irritable-looking man was dancing around taking pho\-tographs with a large black camera that emitted puffs of purple smoke with every blinding flash.
\par \lquote Out of the way, there,\rquote  he snarled at Ron, moving back to get a better shot. \lquote This is for the }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Daily Prophet.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \rquote 
\par \lquote Big deal,\rquote  said Ron, rubbing his foot where the photographer had stepped on it.
\par Gilderoy Lockhart heard him. He looked up. He saw Ron \endash  and then he saw Harry. He stared. Then he leapt to his feet and posi\-tively shouted, \lquote It }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 can
\rquote t}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  be Harry Potter?\rquote 
\par The crowd parted, whispering excitedly. Lockhart dived for\-ward, seized Harry\rquote s arm and pulled him to the front. The crowd burst into applause. Harry\rquote s face burned as Lockhart shook his han
d for the photographer, who was clicking away madly, wafting thick smoke over the Weasleys.
\par \lquote Nice big smile, Harry,\rquote  said Lockhart, through his own gleam\-ing teeth. \lquote Together, you and I are worth the front page.\rquote 
\par When he finally let go of Harry\rquote s hand, Harry could hardly feel his fingers. He tried to sidle back over to the Weasleys, but Lockhart threw an arm around his shoulders and clamped him tightly to his side.
\par \lquote Ladies and gentlemen,\rquote  he said loudly, waving for quiet. \lquote What an extraordinary moment this is! The perfect moment for me to make a little announcement I\rquote ve been sitting on for some time!
\par \lquote When young Harry here stepped into Flourish and Blotts today, he only wanted to buy my autobiography \endash  which I shall be happy to present him now, free of charge \endash \rquote  the crowd applauded again,\rquote \endash  he had }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 no idea,\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
 Lockhart continued, giving Harry a little shake that made his glasses slip to the end of his nose, \lquote that he would shortly be getting much, much more than my book, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Magical Me.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  He and his school fellows will
, in fact, be getting the real, magical me. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I have great pleasure and pride in announcing that, this September, I will be taking up the post of Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry!
\rquote 
\par The crowd cheered and clapped and Harry found himself being presented with the entire works of Gilderoy Lockhart. Staggering slightly under their weight, he managed to make his way out of the limelight to the edge of the room, where Ginny was standing nex
t to her new cauldron.
\par \lquote You have these,\rquote  Harry mumbled to her, tipping the books into the cauldron. \lquote I\rquote ll buy my own \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote Bet you loved that, didn\rquote t you, Potter?\rquote  said a voice Harry had no trouble recognising. He straightened up and found himself face to face with Draco Malfoy, who was wearing his usual sneer.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Famous}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Harry Potter,\rquote  said Malfoy. \lquote Can\rquote 
t even go into a }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 book\-shop}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  without making the front page.\rquote 
\par \lquote Leave him alone, he didn\rquote t want all that!\rquote  said Ginny. It was the first time she had spoken in front of Harry. She was glaring at Malfoy.
\par \lquote Potter, you\rquote ve got yourself a }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 girlfriend!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
 drawled Malfoy. Ginny went scarlet as Ron and Hermione fought their way over, both clutching stacks of Lockhart\rquote s books.
\par \lquote Oh, it\rquote s you,\rquote  said Ron, looking at Malfoy as if he were some\-thing unpleasant on the sole of his shoe. \lquote Bet you\rquote re surprised to see Harry here, eh?\rquote 
\par \lquote Not as surprised as I am to see you in a shop, Weasley,\rquote  retorted Malfoy. \lquote I suppose your parents will go hungry for a month to pay for that lot.\rquote 
\par Ron went as red as Ginny. He dropped his books into the caul\-dron, too, and started towards Malfoy, but Harry and Hermione grabbed the back of his jacket.
\par \lquote Ron!\rquote  said Mr Weasley, struggling over with Fred and George. \lquote What are you doing? It\rquote s mad in here, let\rquote s go outside.\rquote 
\par \lquote Well, well, well \endash  Arthur Weasley.\rquote 
\par It was Mr Malfoy. He stood with his hand on Draco\rquote s shoulder, sneering in just the same way.
\par \lquote Lucius,\rquote  said Mr Weasley, nodding coldly.
\par \lquote Busy time at the Ministry, I hear,\rquote  said Mr Malfoy. \lquote All those raids ... I hope they\rquote re paying you overtime?\rquote 
\par He reached into Ginny\rquote s cauldron and extracted, from amidst the glossy Lockhart books, a very old, very battered copy of }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 A Beginner\rquote 
s Guide to Transfiguration.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par \lquote Obviously not,\rquote  he said. \lquote Dear me, what\rquote s the use of being a dis\-grace to the name of wizard if they don\rquote t even pay you well for it?\rquote 
\par Mr Weasley flushed darker than either Ron or Ginny.
\par \lquote We have a very different idea of what disgraces the name of wizard, Malfoy,\rquote  he said.
\par \lquote Clearly,\rquote  said Mr Malfoy, his pale eyes straying to Mr and Mrs Granger, who were watching apprehensively. \lquote The company you keep, Weasley ... and I thought your family could sink no lower \endash \rquote 
\par There was a thud of metal as Ginny\rquote s cauldron went flying; Mr Weasley had thrown himself at Mr Malfoy, knocking him back\-wards into a bookshelf. Dozens of heavy spellbooks came thun\-dering down on all their heads; there was a yell of \lquote 
Get him, Dad!\rquote  from Fred or George; Mrs Weasley was shrieking, \lquote No, Arthur, no!\rquote ; the crowd stampeded backwards, knocking more shelves over; \lquote Gentlemen, please \endash  please!\rquote 
 cried the assistant and then, louder than all, \lquote Break it up, there, gents, break it up \endash \rquote 
\par Hagrid was wading towards them through the sea of books. In an instant he had pulled Mr Weasley and Mr Malfoy apart. Mr Weasley had a cut lip and Mr Malfoy had been hit in the eye by an }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Encyclopedia of Toadstools.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  He was still holding Ginny\rquote s old trans\-
figuration book. He thrust it at her, his eyes glittering with malice.
\par \lquote Here, girl \endash  take your book \endash  it\rquote s the best your father can give you \endash \rquote 
\par Pulling himself out of Hagrid\rquote s grip he beckoned to Draco and swept from the shop.
\par \lquote Yeh should\rquote ve ignored him, Arthur,\rquote  said Hagrid, almost lifting Mr Weasley off his feet as he straightened his robes. \lquote Rotten ter the core, the whole family, everyone knows that. No Malfoy\rquote s worth listenin\rquote 
 ter. Bad blood, that\rquote s what it is. Come on now \endash  let\rquote s get outta here.\rquote 
\par The assistant looked as though he wanted to stop them leaving, but he barely came up to Hagrid\rquote s waist and seemed to think bet\-ter of it. They hurried up the street, the Grangers shaking with fright and Mrs Weasley beside herself with fury.
\par \lquote A }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 fine}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  example to set to your children ... }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 
\ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 brawling}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  in public ... }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 what}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Gilderoy Lockhart must\rquote ve thought ...\rquote 
\par \lquote He was pleased,\rquote  said Fred. \lquote Didn\rquote t you hear him as we were leaving? He was asking that bloke from the }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Daily Prophet}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 
\ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  if he\rquote d be able to work the fight into his report \endash  said it was all publicity.\rquote 
\par But it was a subdued group who headed back to the fireside in the Leaky Cauldron, where Harry, the Weasleys and all their shop\-
ping would be travelling back to The Burrow using Floo powder. They said goodbye to the Grangers, who were leaving the pub for the Muggle street on the other side. Mr Weasley started to ask them how bus 
stops worked, but stopped quickly at the look on Mrs Weasley\rquote s face.
\par Harry took off his glasses and put them safely in his pocket before helping himself to Floo powder. It definitely wasn\rquote t his favourite way to travel.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \page 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \emdash  CHAPTER FIVE \emdash 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sa280\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs56 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs56\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 The Whomping Willow
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sa280\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 The end of the summer holidays came too quickly for Harry\rquote 
s liking. He was looking forward to getting back to Hogwarts, but his month at The Burrow had been the happiest of his life. It was difficult not to feel jealous of Ron when he 
thought of the Dursleys and the sort of welcome he could expect next time he turned up in Privet Drive.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
On their last evening, Mrs Weasley conjured up a sumptuous dinner which included all of Harry\rquote s favourite things, ending with a mouthwatering treacle pu
dding. Fred and George rounded off the evening with a display of Filibuster fireworks; they filled the kitchen with red and blue stars that bounced from ceiling to wall for at least half an hour. Then it was time for a last mug of hot chocolate and bed.

\par It
 took a long while to get started next morning. They were up at cock-crow, but somehow they still seemed to have a great deal to do. Mrs Weasley dashed about in a bad mood looking for spare socks and quills, people kept colliding on the stairs, half-dress
ed with bits of toast in their hands, and Mr Weasley nearly broke his neck, tripping over a stray chicken as he crossed the yard carrying Ginny\rquote s trunk to the car.
\par Harry couldn\rquote t see how eight people, six large trunks, two owls and a rat were going to fit into one small Ford Anglia. He had reckoned, of course, without the special features which Mr Weasley had added.
\par \lquote Not a word to Molly,\rquote  he whispered to Harry as he opened the boot and showed him how it had been magically expanded so that the trunks fitted easily.
\par When at last they were all in the car, Mrs Weasley glanced into the back seat, where Harry, Ron, Fred, George and Percy were all sitting comfortably side by side, and said, \lquote Muggles }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 do}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  know more than we give them credit for, don\rquote t they?\rquote  She and Gin
ny got into the front seat, which had been stretched so that it resembled a park bench. \lquote I mean, you\rquote d never know it was this roomy from the outside, would you?\rquote 
\par Mr Weasley started up the engine and they trundled out of the yard, Harry turning back for a last look at the house. He barely had time to wonder when he\rquote 
d see it again when they were back: George had forgotten his box of Filibuster fireworks. Five minutes after that, they skidded to a halt in the yard so that Fred could run in for his broomstick. 
They had almost reached the motorway when Ginny shrieked that she\rquote d left her diary. By the time she had clambered back into the car, they were running very late, and tempers were running high.
\par Mr Weasley glanced at his watch and then at his wife.
\par \lquote Molly, dear \endash \rquote 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote No,}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Arthur.\rquote 
\par \lquote No one would see. This little button here is an Invisibility Booster I installed \endash  that\rquote d get us up in the air \endash  then we fly above the clouds. We\rquote d be there in ten minutes and no one would be any the wiser ...\rquote 

\par \lquote I said }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 no,}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Arthur, not in broad daylight.\rquote 
\par They reached King\rquote s Cross at a quarter to eleven. Mr Weasley dashed across the road to get trolleys for their trunks and they all hurried into the station.
\par Harry had caught the Hogwarts Express the previous year. The tricky bit was getting onto platform nine and three-quarters, which wasn\rquote 
t visible to the Muggle eye. What you had to do was walk through the solid barrier dividing platforms nine and ten. It didn\rquote t hurt, but it had to be done carefully so that none of the Muggles noticed you vanishing.
\par \lquote Percy first,\rquote  said Mrs Weasley, looking nervously at the clock overhead, which showed they had only five minutes to disappear casually through the barrier.
\par Percy strode briskly forward and vanished. Mr Weasley went next, Fred and George followed.
\par \lquote I\rquote ll take Ginny and you two come right after us,\rquote  Mrs Weasley told Harry and Ron, grabbing Ginny\rquote s hand and setting off. In the blink of an eye they were gone.
\par \lquote Let\rquote s go together, we\rquote ve only got a minute,\rquote  Ron said to Harry.
\par Harry made sure that Hedwig\rquote s cage was safely wedged on top of his trunk and wheeled his trolley about to face the barrier. He felt perfectly confident; this wasn\rquote 
t nearly as uncomfortable as using Floo powder. Both of them bent low over the handles of their trolleys and walked purposefully towards the barrier, gather\-ing speed. A few feet away from it, they broke into a run and \endash 
\par CRASH.
\par Both trolleys hit the barrier and bounced backwards. Ron\rquote s trunk fell off with a loud thump, Harry was knocked off his feet, and Hedwig\rquote s cage bo
unced onto the shiny floor and she rolled away, shrieking indignantly. People all around them stared and a guard nearby yelled, \lquote What in blazes d\rquote you think you\rquote re doing?\rquote 
\par \lquote Lost control of the trolley,\rquote  Harry gasped, clutching his ribs as he got up. Ron ran to pick up Hedwig, who was causing such a scene that there was a lot of muttering about cruelty to animals from the surrounding crowd.
\par \lquote Why can\rquote t we get through?\rquote  Harry hissed to Ron.
\par \lquote I dunno \endash \rquote 
\par Ron looked wildly around. A dozen curious people were still watching them.
\par \lquote We\rquote re going to miss the train,\rquote  Ron whispered. \lquote I don\rquote t under\-stand why the gateway\rquote s sealed itself ...\rquote 
\par Harry looked up at the giant clock with a sickening feeling in the pit of his stomach. Ten seconds ... nine seconds ...
\par He wheeled his trolley forward cautiously until it was right against the barrier, and pushed with all his might. The metal remained solid.
\par Three seconds ... two seconds ... one second ...
\par \lquote It\rquote s gone,\rquote  said Ron, sounding stunned. \lquote The train\rquote s left. What if Mum and Dad can\rquote t get back through to us? Have you got any Muggle money?\rquote 
\par Harry gave a hollow laugh. \lquote The Dursleys haven\rquote t given me pocket money for about six years.\rquote 
\par Ron pressed his ear to the cold barrier.
\par \lquote Can\rquote t hear a thing,\rquote  he said tensely. \lquote What\rquote re we going to do? I don\rquote t know how long it\rquote ll take Mum and Dad to get back to us.\rquote 
\par They looked around. People were still watching them, mainly because of Hedwig\rquote s continuing screeches.
\par \lquote I think we\rquote d better go and wait by the car,\rquote  said Harry. We\rquote re attracting too much atten}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \emdash }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par \lquote Harry!\rquote  said Ron, his eyes gleaming. \lquote The car!\rquote 
\par \lquote What about it?\rquote 
\par \lquote We can fly the car to Hogwarts!\rquote 
\par \lquote But I thought \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote We\rquote re stuck, right? And we\rquote ve got to get to school, haven\rquote t we? And even underage wizards are allowed to use magic if it\rquote s a real emergency, section nineteen or something of the Restriction of Thingy ...\rquote 
\par Harry\rquote s feeling of panic turned suddenly to excitement.
\par \lquote Can you fly it?\rquote 
\par \lquote No problem,\rquote  said Ron, wheeling his trolley around to face the exit. \lquote C\rquote mon, let\rquote s go, if we hurry we\rquote ll be able to follow the Hogwarts Express.\rquote 
\par And they marched off through the crowd of curious Muggles, out of the station and back into the side road where the old Ford Anglia was parked.
\par Ron unlocked the cavernous boot with a series of taps from his wand. They heaved their trunks back in, put Hedwig on the back seat and got into the front.
\par \lquote Check no one\rquote s watching,\rquote  said Ron, starting the ignition with another tap of his wand. Harry stuck his head out of the window: traffic was rumbling along the main road ahead, but their street was empty.
\par \lquote OK,\rquote  he said.
\par Ron pressed a tiny silver button on the dashboard. The car around them vanished \endash  and so did they. Harry could feel the seat vibrating beneath him, hear the 
engine, feel his hands on his knees and his glasses on his nose, but for all he could see, he had become a pair of eyeballs, floating a few feet above the ground in a dingy street full of parked cars.
\par \lquote Let\rquote s go,\rquote  said Ron\rquote s voice from his right.
\par The ground and the dirty buildings on either side fell away, dropping out of sight as the car rose; in seconds, the whole of London lay, smoky and glittering, below them.
\par Then there was a popping noise and the car, Harry and Ron reappeared.
\par \lquote Uh oh,\rquote  said Ron, jabbing at the Invisibility Booster. \lquote It\rquote s faulty \endash \rquote 
\par Both of them pummelled it. The car vanished. Then it flickered back again.
\par \lquote Hold on!\rquote  Ron yelled, and he slammed his foot on the accelera\-tor; they shot straight into the low woolly clouds and everything turned dull and foggy.
\par \lquote Now what?\rquote  said Harry, blinking at the solid mass of cloud pressing in on them from all sides.
\par \lquote We need to see the train to know what direction to go in,\rquote  said Ron.
\par \lquote Dip back down again \endash  quickly \endash \rquote 
\par They dropped back beneath the clouds and twisted around in their seats, squinting at the ground \endash 
\par \lquote I can see it!\rquote  Harry yelled. \lquote Right ahead \endash  there!\rquote 
\par The Hogwarts Express was streaking along below them like a scarlet snake.
\par \lquote Due north,\rquote  said Ron, checking the compass on the dashboard. \lquote OK, we\rquote ll just have to check on it every half an hour or so. Hold on ...\rquote 
 And they shot up through the clouds. A minute later, they burst out into a blaze of sunlight.
\par It was a different world. The wheels of the car skimmed the sea of fluffy cloud, the sky a bright, endless blue under the blinding white sun.
\par \lquote All we\rquote ve got to worry about now are aeroplanes,\rquote  said Ron.
\par They looked at each other and started to laugh; for a long time, they couldn\rquote t stop.
\par It was as though they had been plunged into a fabulo
us dream. This, thought Harry, was surely the only way to travel: past swirls and turrets of snowy cloud, in a car full of hot, bright sunlight, with a fat pack of toffees in the glove compartment, and the prospect of seeing Fred and George\rquote 
s jealous faces when they landed smoothly and spectacularly on the sweeping lawn in front of Hogwarts castle.
\par They made regular checks on the train as they flew further and further north, each dip beneath the clouds showing them a differ\-ent view. London was soon far behind them, replaced by neat green fields which gave way in turn to wide, purplish moors, vil\-
lages with tiny toy churches and a great city alive with cars like multi-coloured ants.
\par Several uneventful hours later, however, Harry had to admit that some of the fun was wearing off. The toffees had made them extremely thirsty and they had nothing to drink. He and Ron had pulled off their jumpers, but Harry\rquote 
s T-shirt was sticking to the back of his seat and his glasses kept sliding down to the end of his sweaty no
se. He had stopped noticing the fantastic cloud shapes now, and was thinking longingly of the train miles below, where you could buy ice-cold pumpkin juice from a trolley pushed by a plump witch. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Why}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  hadn\rquote t they been able to get onto platform nine and three-quarters?
\par \lquote Can\rquote t be much further, can it?\rquote  croaked Ron, hours later still, as the sun started to sink into their floor of cloud, staining it a deep pink. \lquote Ready for another check on the train?\rquote 
\par It was still right below them, winding its way past a snow-capped mountain. It was much darker beneath the canopy of clouds.
\par Ron put his foot on the accelerator and drove them upwards again, but as he did so, the engine began to whine.
\par Harry and Ron exchanged nervous glances.
\par \lquote It\rquote s probably just tired,\rquote  said Ron. \lquote It\rquote s never been this far before ...\rquote 
\par And they both pretended not to notice the whining growing louder and louder as the sky became steadily darker. Stars were blossoming in the blackness. Harry pulled his jumper back on, trying to ignore the way the windsc
reen wipers were now waving feebly, as though in protest.
\par \lquote Not far,\rquote  said Ron, more to the car than to Harry, \lquote not far now,\rquote  and he patted the dashboard nervously.
\par When they flew back beneath the clouds a little while later, they had to squint through the darkness for a landmark they knew.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote There!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Harry shouted, making Ron and Hedwig jump. \lquote 
Straight ahead!\rquote 
\par Silhouetted on the dark horizon, high on the cliff over the lake, stood the many turrets and towers of Hogwarts castle.
\par But the car had begun to shudder and was losing speed.
\par \lquote Come on,\rquote  Ron said cajolingly, giving the steering wheel a little shake, \lquote nearly there, come on \endash \rquote 
\par The engine groaned. Narrow jets of steam were issuing from under the bonnet. Harry found himself gripping the edges of his seat very hard as they flew towards the lake.
\par The car gave a nasty wobble. Glancing out of his window, Harry saw the smooth, black, glassy surface of the water, a mile below. Ron\rquote s knuckles were white on the steering wheel. The car wobbled again.
\par \lquote Come }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 on,\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Ron muttered.
\par They were over the lake ... the castle was right ahead ... Ron put his foot down.
\par There was a loud clunk, a splutter, and the engine died com\-pletely.
\par \lquote Uh oh,\rquote  said Ron, into the silence.
\par The nose of the car dropped. They were falling, gathering speed, heading straight for the solid castle wall.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Noooooo!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
 Ron yelled, swinging the steering wheel around; they missed the dark stone wall by inches as the car turned in a great arc, soaring over the dark greenhouses, then the vegetable patch and then out over the black lawns, losing height all the time.
\par Ron let go of the steering wheel completely and pulled his wand out of his back pocket.
\par \lquote STOP! STOP!\rquote  he yelled, whacking the dashboard and the windscreen, but they were still plummeting, the ground flying up towards them ...
\par \lquote MIND THAT TREE!\rquote  Harry bellowed, lunging for the steering wheel, but too late \endash 
\par CRUNCH.
\par With an ear-splitting bang of metal on wood, they hit the thick tree trunk and dropped to the ground with a heavy jolt. Steam was billowing from under the crumpled bonnet; Hedwig was shrieking in terror, a golf-ball-sized lump was throbbing on Harry
\rquote s head where he had hit the windscreen, and to his right, Ron let out a low, despairing groan.
\par \lquote Are you OK?\rquote  Harry said urgently.
\par \lquote My wand,\rquote  said Ron, in a shaky voice. \lquote Look at my wand.\rquote 
\par It had snapped, almost in two; the tip was dangling limply, held on by a few splinters.
\par Harry opened his mouth to say he was sure they\rquote d be able to mend it up at the school, but he never even got started. 
At that very moment, something hit his side of the car with the force of a charging bull, sending him lurching sideways into Ron, just as an equally heavy blow hit the roof.
\par \lquote What\rquote s happen}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \emdash }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 ?\rquote 
\par Ron gasped, staring through the windscreen, and Harry looked aro
und just in time to see a branch as thick as a python smash into it. The tree they had hit was attacking them. Its trunk was bent almost double, and its gnarled boughs were pummelling every inch of the car it could reach.
\par \lquote Aaargh!\rquote  said Ron, as another twi
sted limb punched a large dent into his door; the windscreen was now trembling under a hail of blows from knuckle-like twigs and a branch as thick as a battering ram was pounding furiously on the roof, which seemed to be caving in \endash 
\par \lquote Run for it!\rquote  Ron shouted, throwing his full weight against his door, but next second he had been knocked backwards into Harry\rquote s lap by a vicious upper cut from another branch.
\par \lquote We\rquote re done for!\rquote  he moaned, as the ceiling sagged, but sudden\-ly the floor of the car was vibrating \endash  the engine had re-started.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Reverse!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
 Harry yelled, and the car shot backwards. The tree was still trying to hit them; they could hear its roots creaking as it almost ripped itself up, lashing out at them as they sped out of reach.
\par \lquote That,\rquote  panted Ron, \lquote was close. Well done, car.\rquote 
\par The car, however, had reached the end of its tether. With two smart clunks, the doors flew open and Harry felt his seat tip side\-ways: next thing he knew he was sprawled on the damp ground. Loud thuds told him that the car was eje
cting their luggage from the boot. Hedwig\rquote 
s cage flew through the air and burst open; she rose out of it with a loud, angry screech and sped off towards the castle without a backwards look. Then, dented, scratched and steaming, the car rumbled off into the
 darkness, its rear lights blazing angrily.
\par \lquote Come back!\rquote  Ron yelled after it, brandishing his broken wand. \lquote Dad\rquote ll kill me!\rquote 
\par But the car disappeared from view with one last snort from its exhaust.
\par \lquote Can you }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 believe}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  our luck?\rquote 
 said Ron miserably, bending down to pick up Scabbers the rat. \lquote Of all the trees we could\rquote ve hit, we had to get one that hits back.\rquote 
\par He glanced over his shoulder at the ancient tree, which was still flailing its branches threateningly.
\par \lquote Come on,\rquote  said Harry wearily, \lquote we\rquote d better get up to the school ...\rquote 
\par It wasn\rquote t at all the triumphant arrival they had pictured. Stiff, cold and bruised, they seized the ends of their trunks and began dragging them up the grassy slope, towards the great oak front doors.
\par \lquote I think the feast\rquote s already started,\rquote  said Ron, dropping his trunk at the foot of the front steps and crossing quietly to look through a brightly lit window. \lquote Hey, Harry, come and look \endash  it\rquote s the Sorting!\rquote 

\par Harry hurried over and, together, he and Ron peered in at the Great Hall.
\par Innumerable candles were hovering in mid-air over four long, crowded tables, making the golden plates and goblets sparkle. Overhead, the bewitched ceiling which always mirrored the sky outside, sparkled with stars.
\par Through the forest of
 pointed black Hogwarts hats, Harry saw a long line of scared-looking first-years filing into the Hall. Ginny was amongst them, easily visible because of her vivid Weasley hair. Meanwhile, Professor McGonagall, a bespectacled witch with her hair in a tigh
t bun, was placing the famous Hogwarts Sorting Hat on a stool before the newcomers.
\par Every year, this aged old hat, patched, frayed and dirty, sorted new students into the four Hogwarts houses (Gryffindor, Hufflepuff, Ravenclaw and Slytherin). Harry well rem
embered putting it on, exactly one year ago, and waiting, petrified, for its decision as it muttered aloud in his ear. For a few horrible sec\-
onds he had feared that the hat was going to put him in Slytherin, the house which had turned out more dark witches and wizards than any other \endash 
 but he had ended up in Gryffindor, along with Ron, Hermione and the rest of the Weasleys. Last term, Harry and Ron had helped Gryffindor win the House Championship, beating Slytherin for the first time in seven years.
\par A very small, mousey-haired boy had been called forward to place the hat on his head. Harry\rquote 
s eyes wandered past him to where Professor Dumbledore, the Headmaster, sat watching the Sorting from the staff table, his long silver beard and half-moon glasses shining 
brightly in the candlelight. Several seats along, Harry saw Gilderoy Lockhart, dressed in robes of aquamarine. And there at the end was Hagrid, huge and hairy, drinking deeply from his goblet.
\par \lquote Hang on ...\rquote  Harry muttered to Ron. \lquote There\rquote s an empty chair at the staff table ... Where\rquote s Snape?\rquote 
\par Professor Severus Snape was Harry\rquote s least favourite teacher. Harry also happened to be Snape\rquote s least favourite student. Cruel, sarcastic and disliked by everybody except the students from his own house (Slytherin), Snape taught Potions.

\par \lquote Maybe he\rquote s ill!\rquote  said Ron hopefully.
\par \lquote Maybe he\rquote s }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 left,\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  said Harry, \lquote 
because he missed out on the Defence Against the Dark Arts job }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 again!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 

\par \lquote Or he might have been }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 sacked!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  said Ron enthusiastically. \lquote 
I mean, everyone hates him \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote Or maybe,\rquote  said a very cold voice right behind them, \lquote he\rquote s wait\-ing to hear why you two didn\rquote t arrive on the school train.\rquote 
\par Harry spun around. There, his black robes rippling in a cold breeze, stood Severus Snape. He was a thin man with sallow skin, a hooked nos
e and greasy, shoulder-length black hair, and at this moment, he was smiling in a way that told Harry he and Ron were in very deep trouble.
\par \lquote Follow me,\rquote  said Snape.
\par Not daring even to look at each other, Harry and Ron followed Snape up the steps into the v
ast, echoing Entrance Hall, which was lit with flaming torches. A delicious smell of food was wafting from the Great Hall, but Snape led them away from the warmth and light, down a narrow stone staircase that led into the dun\-geons.
\par \lquote In!\rquote  he said, opening a door halfway down the cold passageway and pointing.
\par They entered Snape\rquote s office, shivering. The shadowy walls were lined with shelves of large glass jars, in which floated all manner of revolting things Harry didn\rquote t really want to know the name of at the
 moment. The fireplace was dark and empty. Snape closed the door and turned to look at them.
\par \lquote So,\rquote  he said softly, \lquote the train isn\rquote t good enough for the famous Harry Potter and his faithful sidekick Weasley. Wanted to arrive with a }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
bang,}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  did we, boys?\rquote 
\par \lquote No, sir, it was the barrier at King\rquote s Cross, it \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote Silence!\rquote  said Snape coldly. \lquote What have you done with the car?\rquote 
\par Ron gulped. This wasn\rquote t the first time Snape had given Harry the impression of being able to read minds. But a moment later, he understood, as Snape unrolled today\rquote s issue of the }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Evening Prophet.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par \lquote You were seen,\rquote  he hissed, showing them the headline: FLYING FORD ANGLIA MYSTIFIES MUGGLES. He began to read aloud. \lquote  \'93Two Muggles in London, convinced they saw an old car flying over the Post Office to
wer ... at noon in Norfolk, Mrs Hetty Bayliss, while hanging out her washing ... Mr Angus Fleet, of Peebles, reported to police\'94 ... six or seven Muggles in all. I believe }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 your}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  father works in the Misuse of Muggle Artefacts Office?\rquote  he said, looking up at 
Ron and smiling still more nastily. \lquote Dear, dear ... his own son ...\rquote 
\par Harry felt as though he\rquote d just been walloped in the stomach by one of the mad tree\rquote s larger branches. If anyone found out Mr Weasley had bewitched the car ... he hadn\rquote t thought of that ...
\par \lquote I noticed, in my search of the park, that considerable damage seems to have been done to a very valuable Whomping Willow,\rquote  Snape went on.
\par \lquote That tree did more damage to }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 us}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  than we \endash \rquote  Ron blurted out.

\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Silence!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  snapped Snape again. \lquote 
Most unfortunately, you are not in my house and the decision to expel you does not rest with me. I shall go and fetch the people who }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 do}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 
\ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  have that happy power. You will wait here.\rquote 
\par Harry and Ron stared at each other, white-faced. Harry didn\rquote t feel hungry any more. He now felt extremely sick. He tried not to look at a large, slimy something suspended in green liquid on a shelf behind Snape\rquote 
s desk. If Snape had gone to fetch Professor McGonagall, head of Gryffindor house, they were hardly any bet\-ter off. She might be fairer than Snape, but she was still extremely strict.
\par Ten minutes later, Snape returned, and sure enough it was Professor McGonagall who accompanied him. Harry had seen Professor McGonagall angry on several occasions, but either he had forgotten 
just how thin her mouth could go, or he had never seen her this angry before. She raised her wand the moment she entered. Harry and Ron both flinched, but she merely pointed it at the empty fireplace, where flames suddenly erupted.
\par \lquote Sit,\rquote  she said, and they both backed into chairs by the fire.
\par \lquote Explain,\rquote  she said, her glasses glinting ominously.
\par Ron launched into the story, starting with the barrier at the sta\-tion refusing to let them through.
\par \lquote ... so we had no choice, Professor, we couldn\rquote t get on the train.\rquote 
\par \lquote Why didn\rquote t you send us a letter by owl? I believe }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 you}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  have an owl?
\rquote  Professor McGonagall said coldly to Harry.
\par Harry gaped at her. Now she said it, that seemed the obvious thing to have done.
\par \lquote I \endash  I didn\rquote t think \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote That,\rquote  said Professor McGonagall, \lquote is obvious.\rquote 
\par There was a knock on the office door and Snape, now looking happier than ever, opened it. There stood the Headmaster, Professor Dumbledore.
\par Harry\rquote s whole body went numb. Dumbledore was looking unusually grave. He stared down his very crooked nose at them and Harry suddenly found himself wishing he and Ron were still being beaten up by the Whomping Willow.
\par There was a long silence. Then Dumbledore said, \lquote Please explain why you did this.\rquote 
\par It would have been better if he had shouted. Harry hated 
the disappointment in his voice. For some reason, he was unable to look Dumbledore in the eyes, and spoke instead to his knees. He told Dumbledore everything except that Mr Weasley owned the bewitched car, making it sound as though he and Ron had hap\-
pened to find a flying car parked outside the station. He knew Dumbledore would see through this at once, but Dumbledore asked no questions about the car. When Harry had finished, he merely continued to peer at them through his spectacles.
\par \lquote We\rquote ll go and get our stuff,\rquote  said Ron in a hopeless sort of voice.
\par \lquote What are you talking about, Weasley?\rquote  barked Professor McGonagall.
\par \lquote Well, you\rquote re expelling us, aren\rquote t you?\rquote  said Ron.
\par Harry looked quickly at Dumbledore.
\par \lquote Not today, Mr Weasley,\rquote  said Dumbledore. \lquote But I must 
impress upon both of you the seriousness of what you have done. I will be writing to both your families tonight. I must also warn you that if you do anything like this again, I will have no choice but to expel you.\rquote 
\par Snape looked as though Christmas had been cancelled. He cleared his throat and said, \lquote 
Professor Dumbledore, these boys have flouted the Decree for the Restriction of Underage Wizardry, caused serious damage to an old and valuable tree ... surely acts of this nature ...\rquote 
\par \lquote It will be for Professor McGonagall to decide on these boys\rquote  punishments, Severus,\rquote  said Dumbledore calmly. \lquote They are in her house and are therefore her responsibility.\rquote  He turned to Professor McGonagall. \lquote 
I must go back to the feast, Minerva, I\rquote ve got to give out a few notices. Come, Severus, there\rquote s a delicious-looking cus\-tard tart I want to sample.\rquote 
\par Snape shot a look of pure venom at Harry and Ron as he allowed himself to be swept out of his office, leaving them alone with Professor McGonagall, who was still eyeing them like a wrathful eagle.
\par \lquote You\rquote d better get along to the hospital wing, Weasley, you\rquote re bleeding.\rquote 
\par \lquote Not much,\rquote  said Ron, hastily wiping the cut over his eye with his sleeve. \lquote Professor, I wanted to watch my sister being Sorted \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote The Sorting Ceremony is over,\rquote  said Professor McGonagall. \lquote Your sister is also in Gryffindor.\rquote 
\par \lquote Oh, good,\rquote  said Ron.
\par \lquote And speaking of Gryffindor \endash \rquote  Professor McGonagall said sharply, but Harry cut in: \lquote Professor, when we took the car, term hadn\rquote t started, so \endash  so Gryffindor shouldn\rquote 
t really have points taken from it, should it?\rquote  he finished, watching her anxiously.
\par Professor McGonagall gave him a piercing look, but he was sure she had almost smiled. Her mouth looked less thin, anyway.
\par \lquote I will not take any points from Gryffindor,\rquote  she said, and Harry\rquote s heart lightened considerably. \lquote But you will both get a detention.\rquote 
\par It was better than Harry had expected. As for Dumbledore\rquote s writing to the Dursleys, that was nothing. Harry knew perfectly well they\rquote d just be disappointed that the Whomping Willow hadn\rquote t squashed him flat.
\par Professor McGonagall raised her wand again and pointed it at Snape\rquote s desk. A large plate of sandwiches, two silver goblets and a jug of iced pumpkin juice appeared with a }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 pop.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par \lquote You will eat in here and then go straight up to your dormitory,\rquote  she said. \lquote I must also return to the feast.\rquote 
\par When the door had closed behind her, Ron let out a long, low whistle.
\par \lquote I thought we\rquote d had it,\rquote  he said, grabbing a sandwich.
\par \lquote So did I,\rquote  said Harry, taking one too.
\par \lquote Can you believe our luck, though?\rquote  said Ron thickly through a mouthful of chicken and ham. \lquote Fred and George must\rquote ve flown that car five or six times and no Muggle ever saw }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 them.\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  He swal\-lowed and took another huge bite. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Why}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  couldn\rquote t we get through the barrier?\rquote 
\par Harry shrugged. \lquote We\rquote ll have to watch our step from now on, though,\rquote  he said, taking a grateful swig of pumpkin juice. \lquote Wish we could\rquote ve gone up to the feast ...\rquote 
\par \lquote She didn\rquote t want us showing off,\rquote  said Ron sagely. \lquote Doesn\rquote t want people to think it\rquote s clever, arriving by flying car.\rquote 
\par When they had eaten as many sandwiches as they could (the plate kept re-filling itself) they rose and left the office, treading the familiar path to Gryffindor Tower. The castle was quiet; it seemed that the feast was over. They walked past muttering por
\-traits and creaking suits of armour, and climbed narrow flights of stone stairs, until at last they reached the passage where the secret entrance to Gryffindor Tower was hidden, behind an oil painting of a very fat woman in a pink silk dress.
\par \lquote Password?\rquote  she said, as they approached.
\par \lquote Er \endash \rquote  said Harry.
\par They didn\rquote t know the new year\rquote s password, not having met a Gryffindor Prefect yet, but help came almost immediately; they heard hurrying feet behind them and turned to see Hermione dashing towards them.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote There}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  you are! Where have you }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 been?}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  The most }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 ridiculous}{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  rumours \endash  someone said you\rquote d been expelled for crashing a flying }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 car.
\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par \lquote Well, we haven\rquote t been expelled,\rquote  Harry assured her.
\par \lquote You\rquote re not telling me you }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 did}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  fly here?\rquote 
 said Hermione, sound\-ing almost as severe as Professor McGonagall.
\par \lquote Skip the lecture,\rquote  said Ron impatiently, \lquote and tell us the new password.\rquote 
\par \lquote It\rquote s \'93wattlebird\'94,\rquote  said Hermione impatiently, \lquote but that\rquote s not the point \endash \rquote 
\par Her words were cut short, however, as the portrait of the f
at lady swung open and there was a sudden storm of clapping. It looked as though the whole of Gryffindor house was still awake, packed into the circular common room, standing on the lop-sided tables and squashy armchairs, waiting for them to arrive. Arms 
reached through the portrait hole to pull Harry and Ron inside, leaving Hermione to scramble in after them.
\par \lquote Brilliant!\rquote  yelled Lee Jordan. \lquote Inspired! What an entrance! Flying a car right into the Whomping Willow, people\rquote ll be talking about that one for years!\rquote 
\par \lquote Good on you,\rquote  said a fifth-year Harry had never spoken to; someone was patting him on the back as though he\rquote d just won a marathon. Fred and George pushed their way to the front of the crowd and said together, \lquote Why couldn
\rquote t you\rquote ve called us back, eh?\rquote  Ron was scarlet in the face, grinning embarrassedly, but Harry could see one person who didn\rquote t look happy at all. Percy was visi\-
ble over the heads of some excited first-years, and he seemed to be trying to get near enough to start telling them off. Harry nudged Ron in the ribs and nodded in Percy\rquote s direction. Ron got the point at once.
\par \lquote Got to get upstairs \endash  bit tired,\rquote  he said, and the two of them started pushing their way towards the door on the other side of the room, which led to a spiral staircase and the dormitories.
\par \lquote Night,\rquote  Harry called back to Hermione, who was wearing a scowl just like Percy\rquote s.
\par They managed to get to the other side of the common room, still having their backs slapped, and gained the peace of the stair\-case. They hurried up it, ri
ght to the top, and at last reached the door of their old dormitory, which now had a sign on it saying \lquote second-years\rquote . They entered the familiar, circular room, with its five four-posters hung with red velvet and its high, narrow win\-
dows. Their trunks had been brought up for them and placed at the ends of their beds.
\par Ron grinned guiltily at Harry.
\par \lquote I know I shouldn\rquote t\rquote ve enjoyed that or anything, but \endash \rquote 
\par The dormitory door flew open and in came the other second-year Gryffindor boys, Seamus Finnigan, Dean Thomas and Neville Longbottom.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Unbelievable!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  beamed Seamus.
\par \lquote Cool,\rquote  said Dean.
\par \lquote Amazing,\rquote  said Neville, awestruck.
\par Harry couldn\rquote t help it. He grinned, too.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \page 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \emdash  CHAPTER SIX \emdash 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sa280\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs56 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs56\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Gilderoy Lockhart
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sa280\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
The next day, however, Harry barely grinned once. Things started to go downhill from breakfast in the Great Hall. The four long house tables were laden with tureens of porridge, plates of kip\-pers, mountains of to
ast and dishes of eggs and bacon, beneath the enchanted ceiling (today, a dull, cloudy grey). Harry and Ron sat down at the Gryffindor table next to Hermione, who had her copy of }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Voyages with Vampires}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  propped open against a milk jug. There was a slight stiffness in the way she said \lquote 
Morning\rquote  which told Harry that she was still disapproving of the way they had arrived. Neville Longbottom, on the other hand, greeted them cheerfully. Neville was a round-faced and accident-prone boy with the worst memory of any
one Harry had ever met.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Post\rquote s due any minute \endash  I think Gran\rquote 
s sending on a few things I forgot.\rquote 
\par Harry had only just started his porridge when, sure enough, there was a rushing sound overhead and a hundred or so owls streamed in, circling the Hall and dropping letters and packages into the chattering crowd. A big, lumpy parcel bounced off Neville
\rquote s head, and a second later, something large and grey fell into Hermione\rquote s jug, spraying them all with milk and feathers.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Errol!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  said Ron, pulling the bedraggle
d owl out by the feet. Errol slumped, unconscious, onto the table, his legs in the air and a damp red envelope in his beak.
\par \lquote Oh no \endash \rquote  Ron gasped.
\par \lquote It\rquote s all right, he\rquote s still alive,\rquote  said Hermione, prodding Errol gently with the tip of her finger.
\par \lquote It\rquote s not that \endash  it\rquote s }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 that.\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par Ron was pointing at the red envelope. It looked quite ordinary to Harry, but Ron and Neville were both looking at it as though they expected it to explode.
\par \lquote What\rquote s the matter?\rquote  said Harry.
\par \lquote She\rquote s \endash  she\rquote s sent me a Howler,\rquote  said Ron faintly.
\par \lquote You\rquote d better open it, Ron,\rquote  said Neville, in a timid whisper. \lquote It\rquote ll be worse if you don\rquote t. My Gran sent me one once, and I ignored it and \endash \rquote  he gulped, \lquote it was horrible.\rquote 
\par Harry looked from their petrified faces to the red envelope.
\par \lquote What\rquote s a Howler?\rquote  he said.
\par But Ron\rquote s whole attention was fixed on the letter, which had begun to smoke at the corners.
\par \lquote Open it,\rquote  Neville urged. \lquote It\rquote ll all be over in a few minutes ...\rquote 
\par Ron stretched out a shaking hand, eased the envelope from Errol\rquote s beak and slit it open. Neville stuffed his fingers in his ears. A split second later, Harry knew why. He thought for a moment it }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 had}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  exploded; a roar of sound filled the huge Hall, shaking dust from the ceiling.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote ... STEALING THE CAR, I WOULDN\rquote T HAVE BEEN SUR\-PRISED IF THEYD EXPELLED YOU, YOU WAIT TILL I GET HOLD OF YOU, I DON\rquote 
T SUPPOSE YOU STOPPED TO THINK WHAT YOUR FATHER AND I WENT THROUGH WHEN WE SAW IT HAD GONE ...\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par Mrs Weasley\rquote s yells, a hundred times louder than usual, made the plates and spoons rattle on 
the table, and echoed deafeningly off the stone walls. People throughout the Hall were swivelling around to see who had received the Howler and Ron sank so low in his chair that only his crimson forehead could be seen.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote ... LETTER FROM DUMBLEDORE LAST NIGHT, I THOUGHT YOUR FATHER WOULD DIE OF SHAME, WE DIDN\rquote 
T BRING YOU UP TO BEHAVE LIKE THIS, YOU AND HARRY COULD BOTH HAVE DIED ...\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par Harry had been wondering when his name was going to crop up. He tried very hard to look as though he couldn\rquote t hear the voice that was making his eardrums throb.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote ... ABSOLUTELY DISGUSTED, YOUR FATHER\rquote S FACING AN INQUIRY AT WORK, IT\rquote S ENTIRELY YOUR FAULT AND IF YOU PUT ANOTHER TOE OUT OF LINE WE\rquote 
LL BRING YOU STRAIGHT BACK HOME.\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par A ringing silence fell. The red envelope, which had dropped from Ron\rquote 
s hand, burst into flames and curled into ashes. Harry and Ron sat stunned, as though a tidal wave had just passed over them. A few people laughed and gradually, a babble of talk broke out again.
\par Hermione closed }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Voyages with Vampires}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  and looked down at the top of Ron\rquote 
s head.
\par \lquote Well, I don\rquote t know what you expected, Ron, but you \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote Don\rquote t tell me I deserved it,\rquote  snapped Ron.
\par Harry pushed his porridge away. His insides were burning with guilt. Mr Weasley was facing an inquiry at work. After all Mr and Mrs Weasley had done for him over the summer ...
\par But he had no time to dwell on this; Professor McGonagall was moving along the Gryffindor table, handing out timetables. Harry took his, and saw that they had double Herbology with the Hufflepuffs first.
\par Harry, Ron and Hermione left the castle together, crossed the vegetable patch and made for the greenhouses, where the magical plants were kept. At least the Howler had done one good thing: Hermione seemed to think they had now been punished enough and 
was being perfectly friendly again.
\par As they neared the greenhouses they saw the rest of the class standing outside, waiting for Professor Sprout. Harry, Ron and Hermione had only just joined them when she came striding into view across the lawn, accompanie
d by Gilderoy Lockhart. Professor Sprout\rquote s arms were full of bandages, and with another twinge of guilt, Harry spotted the Whomping Willow in the distance, several of its branches now in slings.
\par Professor Sprout was a squat little witch who wore a patched 
hat over her flyaway hair; there was usually a large amount of earth on her clothes, and her fingernails would have made Aunt Petunia faint. Gilderoy Lockhart, however, was immaculate in sweeping robes of turquoise, his golden hair shining under a perfect
ly positioned turquoise hat with gold trimming.
\par \lquote Oh, hello there!\rquote  Lockhart called, beaming around at the assembled students. \lquote Just been showing Professor Sprout the right way to doctor a Whomping Willow! But I don\rquote t want you running away with the idea that I\rquote 
m better at Herbology than she is! I just happen to have met several of these exotic plants on my travels ...\rquote 
\par \lquote Greenhouse Three today, chaps!\rquote  said Professor Sprout, who was looking distinctly disgruntled, not at all her usual cheerful self.
\par There was a murmur of interest. They had only ever worked in Greenhouse One before \endash 
 Greenhouse Three housed far more interesting and dangerous plants. Professor Sprout took a large key from her belt and unlocked the door. Harry caught a whiff of damp earth and fert
iliser, mingling with the heavy perfume of some giant, umbrella-sized flowers dangling from the ceiling. He was about to follow Ron and Hermione inside when Lockhart\rquote s hand shot out.
\par \lquote Harry! I\rquote ve been wanting a word \endash  you don\rquote t mind if he\rquote s a couple of minutes late, do you, Professor Sprout?\rquote 
\par Judging by Professor Sprout\rquote s scowl, she did mind, but Lockhart said, \lquote That\rquote s the ticket,\rquote  and closed the greenhouse door in her face.
\par \lquote Harry,\rquote  said Lockhart, his large white teeth gleaming in the sun\-light as he shook his head. \lquote Harry, Harry, Harry.\rquote 
\par Completely nonplussed, Harry said nothing.
\par \lquote When I heard \endash  well, of course, it was all my fault. Could have kicked myself.\rquote 
\par Harry had no idea what he was talking about. He was about to say so when Lockhart went on, \lquote Don\rquote t know when I\rquote ve been more shocked. Flying a car to Hogwarts! Well, of course, I knew at once why you\rquote 
d done it. Stood out a mile. Harry, Harry, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Harry.\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par It was remarkable how he could show every one of those brilliant teeth even when he wasn\rquote t talking.
\par \lquote Gave you a taste for publicity, didn\rquote t I?\rquote  said Lockhart. \lquote Gave you the }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 bug.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  You got onto the front page of the paper with me and you couldn\rquote t wait to do it again.\rquote 
\par \lquote Oh \endash  no, Professor, see \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote Harry, Harry, Harry,\rquote  said Lockhart, reaching out and grasping his shoulder. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote I}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 understand.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
 Natural to want a bit more once you\rquote ve had that first taste \endash  and I blame myself for giving you that, because it was bound to go to your head \endash  but see here, young man, you can\rquote t start }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 flying cars}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  to try and get yourself noticed. Just calm down, all right? Plenty of time for all that when you\rquote 
re older. Yes, yes, I know what you\rquote re thinking! \'93It\rquote s all right for him, he\rquote s an internationally famous wizard already!\'94 But when I was twelve, I was just as much of a nobody as you are now. In fact, I\rquote 
d say I was even more of a nobody! I mean, a few people have heard of you, haven\rquote t they? All that business with He Who Must Not Be Named!\rquote  He glanced at the lightning scar on Harry\rquote s forehead. \lquote I know, I know, it\rquote 
s not quite as good as winning }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Witch Weekly\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
s Most-Charming-Smile Award five times in a row, as I have \endash  but it\rquote s a }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 start,}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Harry, it\rquote s a }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 start.\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par He gave Harry a hearty wink and strode off. Harry stood stunned for a few seconds, then, remembering he was supposed to be in the greenhouse, he opened the door and slid inside.
\par Professor Sprout was standing behind a trestle bench in the centre of the greenhouse. About twenty pairs of different-coloured earmuffs were lying on the bench. When Harry had taken his place between Ron and Hermione, she said, \lquote We\rquote 
ll be re-potting Mandrakes today. Now, who can tell me the properties of the Mandrake?\rquote 
\par To nobody\rquote s surprise, Hermione\rquote s hand was first into the air.
\par \lquote Mandrake, or Mandragora, is a powerful restorative,\rquote  said Hermione, sounding as usual as though she had swallowed the textbook. \lquote It is used to return people who have been transfigured or cursed, to their original state.\rquote 

\par \lquote Excellent. Ten points to Gryffindor,\rquote  said Professor Sprout. \lquote The Mandrake forms an essential part of most antidotes. It is also, however, dangerous. Who can tell me why?\rquote 
\par Hermione\rquote s hand narrowly missed Harry\rquote s glasses as it shot up again.
\par \lquote The cry of the Mandrake is fatal to anyone who hears it,\rquote  she said promptly.
\par \lquote Precisely. Take another ten points,\rquote  said Professor Sprout. \lquote Now, the Mandrakes we have here are still very young.\rquote 
\par She pointed to a row of deep trays as she spoke and everyone shuffled forward for a better look. A hundred or so tufty little plants, purplish green in colour, were growing there in rows. They looked quite unremarkable to Harry, who didn\rquote 
t have the slightest idea what Hermione meant by the \lquote cry\rquote  of the Mandrake.
\par \lquote Everyone take a pair of earmuffs,\rquote  said Professor Sprout.
\par There was a scramble as everyone tried to seize a pair that wasn\rquote t pink and fluffy.
\par \lquote When I tell you to put them on, make sure your ears are }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 com\-pletely}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
 covered,\rquote  said Professor Sprout. \lquote When it is safe to remove them, I will give you the thumbs-up. Right \endash  earmuffs }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 on.\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 
\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par Harry snapped the earmuffs over his ears. They shut out sound completely. Professor Sprout put a pink fluffy pair over her own ears, rolled up the sleeves of her robes, grasped one of the tufty plants firmly, and pulled hard.
\par Harry let out a gasp of surprise that no one could hear.
\par Instead of roots, a small, muddy and extremely ugly baby popped out of the earth. The leaves were growing right out of his head. He had pale green, mottled skin, and was clearly bawling at the top of his lungs.
\par Professor Sprout took a large plant pot from under the table and plunged the Mandrake i
nto it, burying him in dark, damp compost until only the tufted leaves were visible. Professor Sprout dusted off her hands, gave them all the thumbs-up and removed her own earmuffs.
\par \lquote As our Mandrakes are only seedlings, their cries won\rquote t kill yet,\rquote  she said calmly, as though she\rquote d just done nothing more exciting than water a begonia. \lquote However, they }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 will}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  knock you out for sev\-eral hours, and as I\rquote 
m sure none of you want to miss your first day back, make sure your earmuffs are securely in place while you work. I will attract your attention when it is time to pack up.
\par \lquote Four to a tray \endash  there is a large supply of pots here \endash  compost in the sacks over there \endash  and be careful of the Venomous Tentacula, it\rquote s teething.\rquote 
\par She gave a sharp slap to a spiky, dark red plant as she spoke, making it draw in the long feelers that had been inching sneakily over her shoulder.
\par Harry, Ron and Hermione were joined at their tray by a curly-haired Hufflepuff boy Harry knew by sight, but had never spoken to.
\par \lquote Justin Finch-Fletchley,\rquote  he said brightly, shaking Harry by the hand. \lquote Know who you are, of course, the famous Harry Potter ... and you\rquote re Hermione Granger \endash  always top in everything ...\rquote 
 (Hermione beamed as she had her hand shaken, too) \lquote and Ron Weasley. Wasn\rquote t that your flying car?\rquote 
\par Ron didn\rquote t smile. The Howler was obviously still on his mind.
\par \lquote That Lockhart\rquote s something, isn\rquote t he?\rquote  said Justin happily, as they began filling their plant pots with dragon-dung compost. \lquote Awfully brave chap. Have you read his books? I\rquote d have died of fear if I\rquote 
d been cornered in a telephone box by a werewolf, but he stayed cool and \endash  zap \endash  just }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 fantastic.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par \lquote My name was down for Eton, you know, I can\rquote t tell you how glad I am I came here instead. Of course, mother was slightly dis\-appointed, but since I made her read Lockhart\rquote s books I think she\rquote s begun to see how useful it
\rquote ll be to have a fully trained wizard in the family ...\rquote 
\par After that they didn\rquote t have much chance to talk. Their earmuffs were back on and they needed to concentrate on the Mandrakes. Professor Sprout had made it look extremely easy, but it wasn\rquote t. The Mandrakes didn\rquote 
t like coming out of the earth, but didn\rquote t seem to want to go back into it either. They squirmed, kicked, flailed their sharp little fists and gnashed their teeth; Harry spent ten whole minutes trying to squash a particularly fat one into a pot.

\par By the end of the class, Harry, like everyone else, was sweaty, aching and covered in earth. They traipsed back to the castle for a quick wash and then the Gryffindors hurried off to Transfiguration.
\par Professor McGonagall\rquote s classes were always hard work, but today was especially difficult. Everything Harry had learned last year seemed to have leaked out of his head during the summer. He was supposed to be turning a beetle i
nto a button, but all he managed to do was give his beetle a lot of exercise as it scuttled over the desk top avoiding his wand.
\par Ron was having far worse problems. He had patched up his wand with some borrowed Spellotape, but it seemed to be dam\-aged beyon
d repair. It kept crackling and sparking at odd moments, and every time Ron tried to transfigure his beetle it engulfed him in thick grey smoke which smelled of rotten eggs. Unable to see what he was doing, Ron accidentally squashed his beetle with his el
bow and had to ask for a new one. Professor McGonagall wasn\rquote t pleased.
\par Harry was relieved to hear the lunch bell. His brain felt like a wrung sponge. Everyone filed out of the classroom except him and Ron, who was whacking his wand furiously on the desk.
\par \lquote Stupid ... useless ... thing ...\rquote 
\par \lquote Write home for another one,\rquote  Harry suggested, as the wand let off a volley of bangs like a firecracker.
\par \lquote Oh yeah, and get another Howler back,\rquote  said Ron, stuffing the now hissing wand into his bag. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote It\rquote s your own fault your wand got snapped 
\endash \rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par They went down to lunch, where Ron\rquote s mood was not improved by Hermione showing them the handful of perfect coat buttons she had produced in Transfiguration.
\par \lquote What\rquote ve we got this afternoon?\rquote  said Harry, hastily changing the subject.
\par \lquote Defence Against the Dark Arts,\rquote  said Hermione at once.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Why,\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  demanded Ron, seizing her timetable, \lquote 
have you outlined all Lockhart\rquote s lessons in little hearts?\rquote 
\par Hermione snatched the timetable back, flushing furiously.
\par They finished lunch and went outside into the overcast court\-yard. Hermione sat down on a stone step and buried her nose in }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Voyages with Vampires}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 
\ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  again. Harry and Ron stood talking about Quidditch for several minutes before Harry became aware that he was being closely watched. Looking up, he saw the very small, mousey-haired boy he
\rquote d seen trying on the Sorting Hat last night, staring at Harry as though transfixed. He was clutching what looked like an ordinary Muggle camera, and the moment Harry looked at him, he went bright red.
\par \lquote All right, Harry? I\rquote m \endash  I\rquote m Colin Creevey,\rquote  he said breathlessly, taking a tentative step forward. \lquote I\rquote m in Gryffindor, too. D\rquote you think \endash  would it be all right if \endash 
 can I have a picture?\rquote  he said, raising the camera hopefully.
\par \lquote A picture?\rquote  Harry repeated blankly.
\par \lquote So I can prove I\rquote ve met you,\rquote  said Colin Creevey eagerly, edging further forwards. \lquote I know all about you. Everyone\rquote 
s told me. About how you survived when You Know Who tried to kill you and how he disappeared and everything and how you\rquote ve still got a light\-ning scar on your forehead\rquote  (his eyes raked Harry\rquote s hairline), \lquote 
and a boy in my dormitory said if I develop the film in the right potion, the pictures\rquote ll }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 move.\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Colin drew a great shuddering breath of excitement and said, \lquote It\rquote s }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 brilliant}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 
\ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  here, isn\rquote t it? I never knew all the odd stuff I could do was magic till I got the letter from Hogwarts. My dad\rquote s a milkman, he couldn\rquote t believe it either. So I\rquote 
m taking loads of pictures to send home to him. And it\rquote d be real\-ly good if I had one of you \endash \rquote  he looked imploringly at Harry, \lquote \endash 
 maybe your friend could take it and I could stand next to you? And then, could you sign it?\rquote 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Signed photos?}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  You\rquote re giving out }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 
\ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 signed photos,}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Potter?\rquote 
\par Loud and scathing, Draco Malfoy\rquote s voice echoed around the courtyard. He had stopped right behind Colin, flanked, as he always was at Hogwarts, by his large and thuggish cronies, Crabbe and Goyle.
\par \lquote Everyone queue up!\rquote  Malfoy roared to the crowd. \lquote Harry Potter\rquote s giving out signed photos!\rquote 
\par \lquote No, I\rquote m not,\rquote  said Harry angrily, his fists clenching. \lquote Shut up, Malfoy.\rquote 
\par \lquote You\rquote re just jealous,\rquote  piped up Colin, whose entire body was about as thick as Crabbe\rquote s neck.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Jealous?\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  said Malfoy, who didn\rquote 
t need to shout any more; half the courtyard was listening in. \lquote Of what? I don\rquote t want a foul scar right across my head, thanks. I don\rquote t think getting your head cut open makes you that special, myself.\rquote 
\par Crabbe and Goyle were sniggering stupidly.
\par \lquote Eat slugs, Malfoy,\rquote  said Ron angrily. Crabbe stopped laughing and started rubbing his conker-like knuckles in a menacing way.
\par \lquote Be careful, Weasley,\rquote  sneered Malfoy. \lquote You don\rquote t want to start any trouble or your mummy\rquote ll have to come and take you away from school.\rquote  He put on a shrill, piercing voice. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote If you put another toe out of line}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  \endash \rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 A knot of Slytherin fifth-years nearby laughed loudly at this.
\par \lquote Weasley would like a signed photo, Potter,\rquote  smirked Malfoy. \lquote It\rquote d be worth more than his family\rquote s whole house.\rquote 
\par Ron whipped out his Spellotaped wand, but Hermione shut }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Voyages with Vampires}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  wi
th a snap and whispered, \lquote Look out!\rquote 
\par \lquote What\rquote s all this, what\rquote s all this?\rquote  Gilderoy Lockhart was striding towards them, his turquoise robes swirling behind him. \lquote Who\rquote s giving out signed photos?\rquote 
\par Harry started to speak but he was cut short as Lockhart flung an arm around his shoulders and thundered jovially, \lquote Shouldn\rquote t have asked! We meet again, Harry!\rquote 
\par Pinned to Lockhart\rquote s side and burning with humiliation, Harry saw Malfoy slide smirking back into the crowd.
\par \lquote Come on then, Mr Creevey,\rquote  said Lockhart, beaming at Colin. \lquote A double portrait, can\rquote t say fairer than that, and we\rquote ll }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 both}{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  sign it for you.\rquote 
\par Colin fumbled for his camera and took the picture as the bell rang behind them, signalling the start of afternoon classes.
\par \lquote Off you go, move along there,\rquote  Lockhart called to the crowd, and he set off back to the castle with Harry, who was wishing he knew a good vanishing spell, still clasped to his side.
\par \lquote A word to the wise, Harry,\rquote  said Lockhart paternally as they entered the building through a side door. \lquote I covered up for you back there with young Creevey \endash  if he was photographing me, too, your schoolfellows won\rquote 
t think you\rquote re setting yourself up so much ...\rquote 
\par Deaf to Harry\rquote s stammers, Lockhart swept him down a corridor lined with staring students and up a staircase.
\par \lquote Let me just say that handing out signed pictures at this stage of your career isn\rquote t sensible \endash  looks a tad bigheaded, Harry, to be frank. There may well come a time when, like me, you\rquote 
ll need to keep a stack handy wherever you go, but \endash \rquote  he gave a little chor\-tle, \lquote I don\rquote t think you\rquote re quite there yet.\rquote 
\par They had reached Lockhart\rquote s classroom and he let Harry go at last. Harry yanked his robes straight and headed for a seat at the very back of the class, where he busied himself with piling all seven of Lockhart\rquote 
s books in front of him, so that he could avoid looking at the real thing.
\par The rest of the class came clattering in and Ron and Hermione sat down on either side of Harry.
\par \lquote You could\rquote ve fried an egg on your face\rquote  said Ron. \lquote You\rquote d better hope Creevey doesn\rquote t meet Ginny, they\rquote ll be starting a Harry Potter fan club.\rquote 
\par \lquote Shut up,\rquote  snapped Harry. The last thing he needed was for Lockhart to hear the phrase \lquote Harry Potter fan club\rquote .
\par When the whole class was seated, Lockhart cleared his throat loudly and silence fell. He reached forward, picked up Neville Longbottom\rquote s copy of }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
Travels with Trolls}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  and held it up to show his own, winking portrait on the front.
\par \lquote Me,\rquote  he said, pointing at it and winking as well, \lquote Gilderoy Lockhart, Order of Merlin, Third Class, Honorary Member of the Dark Force Defence League and five times winner of }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Witch Weekly\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 s Most-Charming-Smile Award \endash  but I don\rquote t talk about that. I didn\rquote 
t get rid of the Bandon Banshee by }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 smiling}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  at her!\rquote 
\par He waited for them to laugh; a few people smiled weakly.
\par \lquote I see you\rquote ve all bought a complete set of my books \endash  well done. I thought we\rquote d start today with a little quiz. Nothing to worry about \endash  just to check how well you\rquote ve read them, how much you\rquote ve taken in ...
\rquote 
\par When he had handed out the test papers he returned to the front of the class and said, \lquote You have thirty minutes. Start \endash  now!\rquote 
\par Harry looked down at his paper and read:
\par 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\ltrpar \rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057 \hich\af37\dbch\af0\loch\f37 1.\tab}}\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi-283\li567\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx567\wrapdefault{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0
\pndec\pnf37\pnstart1\pnindent360 {\pntxta .}}\faauto\ls1\rin0\lin567\itap0\pararsid11695271 {\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 What is Gilderoy Lockhart\rquote s favourite colour?
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\ltrpar \rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057 \hich\af37\dbch\af0\loch\f37 2.\tab}}\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi-283\li568\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx567\wrapdefault{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0
\pndec\pnf37\pnstart1\pnindent360 {\pntxta .}}\faauto\ls1\rin0\lin568\itap0\pararsid11695271 {\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 What is Gilderoy Lockhart\rquote s secret ambition?
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\ltrpar \rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057 \hich\af37\dbch\af0\loch\f37 3.\tab}}\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi-283\li567\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx567\wrapdefault{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0
\pndec\pnf37\pnstart1\pnindent360 {\pntxta .}}\faauto\ls1\rin0\lin567\itap0\pararsid11695271 {\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 What, in your opinion, is Gilderoy Lockhart\rquote s greatest achieve\-
ment to date?
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 On and on it went, over three sides of paper, right down to:
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi-340\li567\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx567\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin567\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 54.\tab }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 When is Gilderoy Lockhart\rquote s birthday, and what would his ideal gift be?}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
Half an hour later, Lockhart collected in the papers and rifled through them in front of the class.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Tut, tut \endash 
 hardly any of you remembered that my favourite colour is lilac. I say so in }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Year with a Yeti.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  And a few of you need to read }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Wanderings with Werewolves}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  more carefully \endash  I clearly state in chapter twelve that my ideal birthday gift would be harmony between all magic and non-magic peoples \endash  though I wouldn\rquote 
t say no to a large bottle of Ogden\rquote s Old Firewhisky!\rquote 
\par He gave them another roguish wink. Ron was now staring at Lockhart with an expression of disbelief on his face; Seamus Finnigan and Dean Thomas, who were sitting in front, were shak\-ing with silent laughter. Hermione, on the other hand, was listen\-
ing to Lockhart with rapt attention, and gave a start when he mentioned her name.
\par \lquote ... but Miss Hermione Granger knew my secret ambition is to rid the world of evil and market my own range of hair-care potions \endash  good girl! In fact \endash \rquote  he flipped her paper over, \lquote 
full marks! Where is Miss Hermione Granger?\rquote 
\par Hermione raised a trembling hand.
\par \lquote Excellent!\rquote  beamed Lockhart. \lquote Quite excellent! Take ten points for Gryffindor! And so, to business ...\rquote 
\par He bent down behind his desk and lifted a large, covered cage onto it.
\par \lquote Now \endash  be warned! It is my job to arm you a
gainst the foulest creatures known to wizardkind! You may find yourselves facing your worst fears in this room. Know only that no harm can befall you whilst I am here. All I ask is that you remain calm.\rquote 
\par In spite of himself, Harry leaned around his pile of books for a better look at the cage. Lockhart placed a hand on the cover. Dean and Seamus had stopped laughing now. Neville was cowering in his front-row seat.
\par \lquote I must ask you not to scream,\rquote  said Lockhart in a low voice. \lquote It might provoke them.\rquote 
\par As the whole class held its breath, Lockhart whipped off the cover.
\par \lquote Yes,\rquote  he said dramatically. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Freshly caught Cornish pixies.\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par Seamus Finnigan couldn\rquote t control himself. He let out a snort of laughter which even Lockhart couldn\rquote t mistake for a scream of terror.
\par \lquote Yes?\rquote  he smiled at Seamus.
\par \lquote Well, they\rquote re not \endash  they\rquote re not very \endash  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 dangerous,}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  are they?\rquote  Seamus choked.
\par \lquote Don\rquote t be so sure!\rquote  said Lockhart, waggling a finger annoyingly at Seamus. \lquote Devilish tricky little blighters they can be!\rquote 
\par The pixies were electric blu
e and about eight inches high, with pointed faces and voices so shrill it was like listening to a lot of budgies arguing. The moment the cover had been removed, they had started jabbering and rocketing around, rattling the bars and pulling bizarre faces a
t the people nearest them.
\par \lquote Right then,\rquote  Lockhart said loudly. \lquote Let\rquote s see what you make of them!\rquote  And he opened the cage.
\par It was pandemonium. The pixies shot in every direction like rockets. Two of them seized Neville by the ears and lifted him into the air
. Several shot straight through the window, showering the back row with broken glass. The rest proceeded to wreck the classroom more effectively than a rampaging rhino. They grabbed ink bottles and sprayed the class with them, shredded books and papers, t
ore pictures from the walls, upended the waste bin, grabbed bags and books and threw them out of the smashed win\-dow; within minutes, half the class was sheltering under desks and Neville was swinging from the candelabra in the ceiling.
\par \lquote Come on now, round them up, round them up, they\rquote re only pixies ...\rquote  Lockhart shouted.
\par He rolled up his sleeves, brandished his wand and bellowed, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Peskipiksi Pesternomi!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par It had absolutely no effect; one of the pixies seized Lockhart\rquote s wand and threw it out of the window, to
o. Lockhart gulped and dived under his own desk, narrowly avoiding being squashed by Neville, who fell a second later as the candelabra gave way.
\par The bell rang and there was a mad rush towards the exit. In the relative calm that followed, Lockhart straightened up, caught sight of Harry, Ron and Hermione, who were almost at the door, and said, \lquote Well, I\rquote 
ll ask you three to just nip the rest of them back into their cage.\rquote  He swept past them and shut the door quickly behind him.
\par \lquote Can you }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 believe}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  him?\rquote  roared Ron, as one of the remaining pix\-
ies bit him painfully on the ear.
\par \lquote He just wants to give us some hands-on experience,\rquote  said Hermione, immobilising two pixies at once with a clever Freezing Charm and stuffing them back into their cage.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Hands on?\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  
said Harry, who was trying to grab a pixie dancing out of reach with its tongue out. \lquote Hermione, he didn\rquote t have a clue what he was doing.\rquote 
\par \lquote Rubbish,\rquote  said Hermione. \lquote You\rquote ve read his books \endash  look at all those amazing things he\rquote s done ...\rquote 
\par \lquote He }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 says}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  he\rquote s done,\rquote  Ron muttered.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \page 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \emdash  CHAPTER SEVEN \emdash 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sa280\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs56 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs56\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Mudbloods and Murmurs
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sa280\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
Harry spent a lot of time over the next few days dodging out of sight whenever he saw Gilderoy Lockhart coming down a cor\-ridor. Harder to avoid was Colin Creevey, who seemed to have memorised Harry\rquote s timetable. Nothing seemed to give Colin a big
\-ger thrill than to say, \lquote All right, Harry?\rquote  six or seven times a day and hear, \lquote Hullo, Colin,\rquote  back, however exasperated Harry sound\-ed when he said it.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Hedwig was still angry with Harry about the disastrous car journey and Ron\rquote 
s wand was still malfunctioning, surpassing itself on Friday morning by shooting out of Ron\rquote s hand in Charms and hitting tiny old Professor Flitwick squarely between the eyes, creating a large, throbbing green boil where it had stru
ck. So, with one thing and another, Harry was quite glad to reach the week\-
end. He, Ron and Hermione were planning to visit Hagrid on Saturday morning. Harry, however, was shaken awake several hours earlier than he would have liked by Oliver Wood, captain of the Gryffindor Quidditch team.
\par \lquote Whassamatter?\rquote  said Harry groggily.
\par \lquote Quidditch practice!\rquote  said Wood. \lquote Come on!\rquote 
\par Harry squinted at the window. There was a thin mist hanging across the pink and gold sky. Now he was awake, he couldn\rquote t understand how he could have slept through the racket the birds were making.
\par \lquote Oliver,\rquote  Harry croaked, \lquote it\rquote s the crack of dawn.\rquote 
\par \lquote Exactly,\rquote  said Wood. He was a tall and burly sixth-year and, at the moment, his eyes were gleaming with a mad enthusiasm. \lquote It\rquote s part of our new training programme. Come on, grab your broom and let\rquote s go,\rquote 
 said Wood heartily. \lquote None of the other teams have started training yet, we\rquote re going to be first off the mark this year ...\rquote 
\par Yawning and shivering slightly, Harry climbed out of bed and tried to find his Quidditch robes.
\par \lquote Good man,\rquote  said Wood. \lquote Meet you on the pitch in fifteen minutes.\rquote 
\par When he\rquote d found his scarlet team robes and pulled on his cloak for warmth, Harry scribbled a note to Ron explaining where he\rquote d gone and went down the spiral staircase to
 the common room, his Nimbus Two Thousand on his shoulder. He had just reached the portrait hole when there was a clatter behind him and Colin Creevey came dashing down the spiral staircase, his camera swinging madly around his neck and something clutched
 in his hand.
\par \lquote I heard someone saying your name on the stairs, Harry! Look what I\rquote ve got here! I\rquote ve had it developed, I wanted to show you \endash \rquote 
\par Harry looked bemusedly at the photograph Colin was bran\-dishing under his nose.
\par A
 moving, black and white Lockhart was tugging hard on an arm Harry recognised as his own. He was pleased to see that his photographic self was putting up a good fight and refusing to be dragged into view. As Harry watched, Lockhart gave up and slumped, pa
nting, against the white edge of the picture.
\par \lquote Will you sign it?\rquote  said Colin eagerly.
\par \lquote No,\rquote  said Harry flatly, glancing around to check that the room was really deserted. \lquote Sorry, Colin, I\rquote m in a hurry \endash  Quidditch prac\-tice.\rquote 
\par He climbed through the portrait hole.
\par \lquote Oh wow! Wait for me! I\rquote ve never watched a Quidditch game before!\rquote 
\par Colin scrambled through the hole after him.
\par \lquote It\rquote ll be really boring,\rquote  Harry said quickly, but Colin ignored him, his face shining with excitement.
\par \lquote You were the youngest house player in a hundred years, weren\rquote t you, Harry? Weren\rquote t you?\rquote  said Colin, trotting alongside him. \lquote You must be brilliant. I\rquote 
ve never flown. Is it easy? Is that your own broom? Is that the best one there is?\rquote 
\par Harry didn\rquote t know how to get rid of him. It was like having an extremely talkative shadow.
\par \lquote I don\rquote t really understand Quidditch,\rquote  said Colin breathlessly. \lquote Is it true there are four balls? And two of them fly round trying to knock people off their brooms?\rquote 
\par \lquote Yes,\rquote  said Harry heavily, resigned to explaining the complicated rules of Quidditch. \lquote They\rquote 
re called Bludgers. There are two Beaters on each team, who carry clubs to beat the Bludgers away from their side. Fred and George Weasley are the Gryffindor Beaters.\rquote 
\par \lquote And what are the other balls for?\rquote  Colin asked, tripping down a couple of steps because he was gazing open-mouthed at Harry.
\par \lquote Well, the Quaffle \endash  that\rquote s the biggish red one \endash  is the one that scores goals. Three Chasers on each team throw the Quaffle to each other and try and get it through the goalposts at the end of the pitch \endash  they\rquote 
re three long poles with hoops on the end.\rquote 
\par \lquote And the fourth ball \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote \endash  is the Golden Snitch,\rquote  said Harry, \lquote and it\rquote s very small, very fast and difficult to catch. But that\rquote s what the Seeker\rquote s got to do, because a game of Quidditch doesn\rquote 
t end until the Snitch has been caught. And whichever team\rquote s Seeker gets the Snitch earns his team an extra hundred and fifty points.\rquote 
\par \lquote And you\rquote re Gryffindor Seeker, aren\rquote t you?\rquote  said Colin in awe.
\par \lquote Yes,\rquote  said Harry, as they left the castle and started across the dew-drenched grass. \lquote And there\rquote s the Keeper, too. He guards the goalposts. That\rquote s it, really.\rquote 
\par But Colin didn\rquote t stop questioning Harry all the way down the sloping lawns to the Quidditch pitch, and Harry only shook him off when he reached the changing rooms. Colin called after him in a piping voice, \lquote I\rquote 
ll go and get a good seat, Harry!\rquote  and hurried off to the stands.
\par The rest of the Gryffindor team were already in the changing room. Wood was the only person who looked truly awake. Fred and
 George Weasley were sitting, puffy-eyed and tousle-haired, next to fourth-year Alicia Spinnet, who seemed to be nodding off against the wall behind her. Her fellow Chasers, Katie Bell and Angelina Johnson, were yawning, side by side, opposite them.

\par \lquote There you are, Harry, what kept you?\rquote  said Wood briskly. \lquote 
Now, I wanted a quick talk with you all before we actually get onto the pitch, because I spent the summer devising a whole new training programme, which I really think will make all the difference ...\rquote 
\par W
ood was holding up a large diagram of a Quidditch pitch, on which were drawn many lines, arrows and crosses in different-coloured inks. He took out his wand, tapped the board and the arrows began to wiggle over the diagram like caterpillars. As Wood launc
hed into a speech about his new tactics, Fred Weasley\rquote s head drooped right onto Alicia Spinnet\rquote s shoulder and he began to snore.
\par The first board took nearly twenty minutes to explain, but there was another board under that, and a third under that one. Harry sank into a stupor as Wood droned on and on.
\par \lquote So,\rquote  said Wood, at long last, jerking Harry from a wistful fan\-tasy about what he could be eating for breakfast at this very moment up at the castle, \lquote is that clear? Any questions?\rquote 
\par \lquote I\rquote ve got a question, Oliver,\rquote  said George, who had woken with a start. \lquote Why couldn\rquote t you have told us all this yesterday when we were awake?\rquote 
\par Wood wasn\rquote t pleased.
\par \lquote Now, listen here, you lot,\rquote  he said, glowering at them all, \lquote we should have won the Quidditch Cup last year. We\rquote re easily the best team. But unfortunately, owing to circumstances beyond our control ...\rquote 
\par Harry shifted guiltily in his seat. He had been unconscious in the hospital wing for the final match of the previous year, mean\-ing that Gryffindor had been a player short and had suffered their worst defeat in three hundred years.
\par Wood took a moment to regain control of himself. Their last defeat was clearly still torturing him.
\par \lquote So, this year, we train harder than ever before ... OK, let\rquote s go and put our new theories into practice!\rquote 
 Wood shouted, seizing his broomstick and leading the way out of the changing rooms. Stiff-legged and still yawning, his team followed.
\par They had been in the changing room so long that the sun was up properly now, although remnants of mist hung over the grass in the stadium. As Harry walked onto the pitch, he saw Ron and Hermione sitting in the stands.
\par \lquote Aren\rquote t you finished yet?\rquote  called Ron incredulously.
\par \lquote Haven\rquote t even started,\rquote  said Harry, looking jealously at the toast and marmalade Ron and Hermione had brought out of the Great Hall. \lquote Wood\rquote s been teaching us new moves.\rquote 
\par He mounted his broomstick and kicked at the ground, soaring up into the air. The cool morning air whipped his face, waking him far more effectively than Wood\rquote s long talk. It fe
lt wonderful to be back on the Quidditch pitch. He soared right around the stadium at full speed, racing Fred and George.
\par \lquote What\rquote s that funny clicking noise?\rquote  called Fred, as they hurtled around the corner.
\par Harry looked into the stands. Colin was sitting in one of the highest seats, his camera raised, taking picture after picture, the sound strangely magnified in the deserted stadium.
\par \lquote Look this way, Harry! This way!\rquote  he cried shrilly.
\par \lquote Who\rquote s that?\rquote  said Fred.
\par \lquote No idea,\rquote  Harry lied, putting on a spurt of speed that took him as far away as possible from Colin.
\par \lquote What\rquote s going on?\rquote  said Wood, frowning, as he skimmed through the air towards them. \lquote Why\rquote s that first-year taking pic\-tures? I don\rquote t like it. He could be a Slytherin spy, trying to find out about our new
 training programme.\rquote 
\par \lquote He\rquote s in Gryffindor,\rquote  said Harry quickly.
\par \lquote And the Slytherins don\rquote t need a spy, Oliver,\rquote  said George.
\par \lquote What makes you say that?\rquote  said Wood testily.
\par \lquote Because they\rquote re here in person,\rquote  said George, pointing.
\par Several people in green robes were walking onto the pitch, broomsticks in their hands.
\par \lquote I don\rquote t believe it!\rquote  Wood hissed in outrage. \lquote I booked the pitch for today! We\rquote ll see about this!\rquote 
\par Wood shot towards the ground, landing rather harder than he meant to in his anger, staggering slightly as he dismounted. Harry, Fred and George followed.
\par \lquote Flint!\rquote  Wood bellowed at the Slytherin captain. \lquote This is our practice time! We got up specially! You can clear off now!\rquote 
\par Marcus Flint was even larger than Wood. He had a look of troll\-ish cunning on his face as he replied, \lquote Plenty of room for all of us, Wood.\rquote 
\par Angelina, Alicia and Katie had come over, too. There were no girls on the Slytherin team \endash  who stood, shoulder to shoulder, facing the Gryffindors, leering to a man.
\par \lquote But I booked the pitch!\rquote  said Wood, positively spitting with rage. \lquote I booked it!\rquote 
\par \lquote Ah,\rquote  said Flint, \lquote but I\rquote ve got a specially signed note here from Professor Snape. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 I, Professor S. Snape, give the Slytherin team per\-
mission to practise today on the Quidditch pitch, owing to the need to train their new Seeker.\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par \lquote You\rquote ve got a new Seeker?\rquote  said Wood, distracted. \lquote Where?\rquote 
\par And from behind the six large figures before them came a sev\-enth, smaller boy, smirking all over his pale, pointed face. It was Draco Malfoy.
\par \lquote Aren\rquote t you Lucius Malfoy\rquote s son?\rquote  said Fred, looking at Malfoy with dislike.
\par \lquote Funny you should mention Draco\rquote s father,\rquote  said Flint, as the whole Slytherin team smiled still more broadly. \lquote Let me show you the generous gift he\rquote s made to the Slytherin team.\rquote 
\par All seven of them held out their broomsticks. Seven highly pol\-ished, brand-new handles and seven sets of fine gold lettering spelling the words \lquote Nimbus Two Thousand and One\rquote  gleamed under the Gryffindors\rquote 
 noses in the early-morning sun.
\par \lquote Very latest model. Only came out last month,\rquote  said Flint care\-lessly, flicking a speck of dust from the end of his own. \lquote I believe it outstrips the old Two Thousand series by a considerable amount. As for the old Cleansweeps,
\rquote  he smiled nastily at Fred and George, who were both clutching Cleansweep Fives, \lquote sweeps the board with them.\rquote 
\par None of the Gryffindor team could think of anything to say for a moment. Malfoy was smirking so broadly his cold eyes were reduced to slits.
\par \lquote Oh look,\rquote  said Flint. \lquote A pitch invasion.\rquote 
\par Ron and Hermione were crossing the grass to see what was going on.
\par \lquote What\rquote s happening?\rquote  Ron asked Harry. \lquote Why aren\rquote t you playing? And what\rquote s }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 he}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  doing here?\rquote 
\par He was looking at Malfoy, taking in his Slytherin Quidditch robes.
\par \lquote I\rquote m the new Slytherin Seeker, Weasley,\rquote  said Malfoy, smugly. \lquote Everyone\rquote s just been admiring the brooms my father\rquote s bought our team.\rquote 
\par Ron gaped, open-mouthed, at the seven superb broomsticks in front of him.
\par \lquote Good, aren\rquote t they?\rquote  said Malfoy smoothly. \lquote But perhaps the Gryffindor team will be able to raise some gold and get new brooms, too. You could raffle off those Cleansweep Fives, I expect a museum would bid for them.\rquote 

\par The Slytherin team howled with laughter.
\par \lquote At least no one on the Gryffindor team had to }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 buy}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  their way in,\rquote 
 said Hermione sharply. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote They}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  got in on pure talent.\rquote 
\par The smug look on Malfoy\rquote s face flickered.
\par \lquote No one asked your opinion, you filthy little Mudblood,\rquote  he spat.
\par Harry knew at once that Malfoy had said something really bad because there was an instant uproar at his words. Flint had to dive in front of Malfoy to stop Fred and George jumping on him, Alicia shrieked, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote How dare you!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  and Ron plunged his hand into his robes, pulled out his wand, yelling, \lquote You
\rquote ll pay for that one, Malfoy!\rquote  and pointed it furiously under Flint\rquote s arm at Malfoy\rquote s face.
\par A loud bang echoed around the stadium and a jet of green light shot out of the wrong end of Ron\rquote s wand, hitting him in the stomach and sending him reeling backwards onto the grass.
\par \lquote Ron! Ron! Are you all right?\rquote  squealed Hermione.
\par Ron opened his mouth to speak, but no words came out. Instead he gave an almighty belch and several slugs dribbled out of his mouth onto his lap.
\par The Slytherin team were paralysed with laughter. Flint was doubled up, hanging on to his new broomstick for support. Ma
lfoy was on all fours, banging the ground with his fist. The Gryffindors were gathered around Ron, who kept belching large, glistening slugs. Nobody seemed to want to touch him.
\par \lquote We\rquote d better get him to Hagrid\rquote s, it\rquote s nearest,\rquote  said Harry to Hermione, who nodded bravely, and the pair of them pulled Ron up by the arms.
\par \lquote What happened, Harry? What happened? Is he ill? But you can cure him, can\rquote t you?\rquote  Colin had run down from his seat and was now dancing alongside them as they left the pitch. Ron gave a huge he
ave and more slugs dribbled down his front.
\par \lquote Oooh,\rquote  said Colin, fascinated and raising his camera. \lquote Can you hold him still, Harry?\rquote 
\par \lquote Get out of the way, Colin!\rquote  said Harry angrily. He and Hermione supported Ron out of the stadium and across the grounds towards the edge of the Forest.
\par \lquote Nearly there, Ron,\rquote  said Hermione, as the gamekeeper\rquote s cabin came into view. \lquote You\rquote ll be all right in a minute ... almost there ...\rquote 
\par They were within twenty feet of Hagrid\rquote s house when the front door opened, but it wasn\rquote t Hagrid who emerged. Gilderoy Lockhart, wearing robes of palest mauve today, came striding out.
\par \lquote Quick, behind here,\rquote  Harry hissed, dragging Ron behind a nearby bush. Hermione followed, somewhat reluctantly.
\par \lquote It\rquote s a simple matter if you know what you\rquote re doing!\rquote  Lockhart was saying loudly to Hagrid. \lquote If you need help, you know where I am! I\rquote ll let you have a copy of my book \endash  I\rquote m surprised you haven
\rquote t already got one. I\rquote ll sign one tonight and send it over. Well, goodbye!\rquote  And he strode away towards the castle.
\par Harry waited until Lockhart was out of sight, then pulled Ron out of the bush and up to Hagrid\rquote s front door. They knocked urgently.
\par Hagrid appeared at once, looking very grumpy, but his expres\-sion brightened when he saw who it was.
\par \lquote Bin wonderin\rquote  when you\rquote d come ter see me \endash  come in, come in \endash  thought you mighta bin Professor Lockhart back again.\rquote 
\par Harry and Hermione supported Ron over the threshold, into the one-roomed cabin, which had an enormous bed in one corner, a fire crackling merrily in another. Hagrid didn\rquote t seem perturbed by Ron\rquote 
s slug problem, which Harry hastily explained as he low\-ered Ron into a chair.
\par \lquote Better out than in,\rquote  he said cheerfully, plonking a large copper basin in front of him. \lquote Get \rquote em all up, Ron.\rquote 
\par \lquote I don\rquote t think there\rquote s anything to do except wait for it to stop,\rquote  said Hermione anxiously, watching Ron bend over the basin. \lquote That\rquote s a difficult curse to work at the best of times, but with a broken wand ...
\rquote 
\par Hagrid was bustling around, making them tea. His boarhound, Fang, was slobbering over Harry.
\par \lquote What did Lockhart want with you, Hagrid?\rquote  Harry asked, scratching Fang\rquote s ears.
\par \lquote Givin\rquote  me advice on gettin\rquote  kelpies out of a well,\rquote  growled Hagrid, moving a half-plucked rooster off his scrubbed table and setting down the teapot. \lquote Like I don\rquote  know. An\rquote  bangin\rquote 
 on about some Banshee he banished. If one word of it was true, I\rquote ll eat my kettle.\rquote 
\par It was most unlike Hagrid to criticise a Hogwarts teacher and Harry looked at him in surprise. Hermione, however, said in a voice somewhat higher than usual, \lquote I think you\rquote 
re being a bit unfair. Professor Dumbledore obviously thought he was the best man for the job \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote He was the }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 on\rquote y}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  man for the job,\rquote 
 said Hagrid, offering them a plate of treacle toffee, while Ron coughed squelchily into his basin. \lquote An\rquote  I mean the }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 on\rquote y}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 
\ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  one. Gettin\rquote  very difficult ter find any\-one fer the Dark Arts job. People aren\rquote t too keen ter take it on, see. They\rquote re startin\rquote  ter think it\rquote 
s jinxed. No one\rquote s lasted long fer a while now. So tell me,\rquote  said Hagrid, jerking his head at Ron, \lquote who was he tryin\rquote  ter curse?\rquote 
\par \lquote Malfoy called Hermione something. It must\rquote ve been really bad, because everyone went mad.\rquote 
\par \lquote It }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 was}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  bad,\rquote 
 said Ron hoarsely, emerging over the table top, looking pale and sweaty. \lquote Malfoy called her \'93Mudblood\'94, Hagrid \endash \rquote 
\par Ron dived out of sight again as a fresh wave of slugs made their appearance. Hagrid looked outraged.
\par \lquote He didn\rquote !\rquote  he growled at Hermione.
\par \lquote He did,\rquote  she said. \lquote But I don\rquote t know what it means. I could tell it was really rude, of course ...\rquote 
\par \lquote It\rquote s about the most insulting thing he could think of,\rquote  gasped Ron, coming back up. \lquote Mudblood\rquote s a really foul name for someone who was Muggle-born \endash  you know, non-magic parents. There are some wizards \endash 
 like Malfoy\rquote s family \endash  who think they\rquote re better than everyone else because they\rquote re what people call pure-blood.\rquote 
 He gave a small burp, and a single slug fell into his outstretched hand. He threw it into the basin and continued, \lquote I mean, the rest of us know it doesn\rquote t make any difference at all. Look at Neville Longbottom \endash  he\rquote s pu
re-blood and he can hardly stand a cauldron the right way up.\rquote 
\par \lquote An\rquote  they haven\rquote t invented a spell our Hermione can\rquote t do,\rquote  said Hagrid proudly, making Hermione go a brilliant shade of magenta.
\par \lquote It\rquote s a disgusting thing to call someone,\rquote  said Ron, wiping his sweaty brow with a shaking hand. \lquote Dirty blood, see. Common blood. It\rquote s mad. Most wizards these days are half-blood anyway. If we hadn\rquote 
t married Muggles we\rquote d\rquote ve died out.\rquote 
\par He retched and ducked out of sight again.
\par \lquote Well, I don\rquote  blame yeh fer tryin\rquote  ter curse him, Ron,\rquote  said Hagrid loudly over the thuds of more slugs hitting the basin. \lquote Bu\rquote  maybe it was a good thing yer wand backfired. \rquote Spect Lucius Malfoy would
\rquote ve come marchin\rquote  up ter school if yeh\rquote d cursed his son. Least yer not in trouble.\rquote 
\par Harry would have pointed out that trouble didn\rquote t come much worse than having slugs pouring out of your mouth, but he couldn\rquote t; Hagrid\rquote s treacle toffee had cemented his jaws together.
\par \lquote Harry,\rquote  said Hagrid suddenly, as though struck by a sudden thought, \lquote gotta bone ter pick with yeh. I\rquote ve heard you\rquote ve bin givin\rquote  out signed photos. How come I haven\rquote t got one?\rquote 
\par Furious, Harry wrenched his teeth apart.
\par \lquote I have }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 not}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  been giving out signed photos,\rquote  he said hotly. \lquote 
If Lockhart\rquote s still putting that about \endash \rquote 
\par But then he saw that Hagrid was laughing.
\par \lquote I\rquote m on\rquote y jokin\rquote ,\rquote  he said, patting Harry genially on the back and sending him, face first, into the table. \lquote I knew yeh hadn\rquote t really. I told Lockhart yeh didn\rquote 
 need teh. Yer more famous than him with\-out tryin\rquote .\rquote 
\par \lquote Bet he didn\rquote t like that,\rquote  said Harry, sitting up and rubbing his chin.
\par \lquote Don\rquote  think he did,\rquote  said Hagrid, his eyes twinkling. \lquote An\rquote  then I told him I\rquote d never read one o\rquote  his books an\rquote  he decided ter go. Treacle toffee, Ron?\rquote  he added, as Ron re-appeared.
\par \lquote No thanks,\rquote  said Ron weakly. \lquote Better not risk it.\rquote 
\par \lquote Come an\rquote  see what I\rquote ve bin growin\rquote ,\rquote  said Hagrid, as Harry and Hermione finished the last of their tea.
\par In the small vegetable patch behind Hagrid\rquote s house were a dozen of the largest pumpkins Harry had ever seen. Each was the size of a large boulder.
\par \lquote Gettin\rquote  on well, aren\rquote t they?\rquote  said Hagrid happily. \lquote Fer the Hallowe\rquote en feast ... should be big enough by then.\rquote 
\par \lquote What\rquote ve you been feeding them?\rquote  said Harry.
\par Hagrid looked over his shoulder to check that they were alone.
\par \lquote Well, I\rquote ve bin givin\rquote  them \endash  you know \endash  a bit o\rquote  help.\rquote 
\par Harry noticed Hagrid\rquote s flowery pink umbrella leaning against the back wall of the cabin. Harry had had reason to believe before now that this umbrella was not all it looked; in fact, he had the strong impression that Hagrid\rquote 
s old school wand was concealed inside it. Hagrid wasn\rquote t supposed to use magic. He had been expelled from Hogwarts in his third year, but Harry had never found out why \endash  any mention of the matter and Hagrid would clear his throat
 loudly and become mysteriously deaf until the subject was changed.
\par \lquote An Engorgement Charm, I suppose?\rquote  said Hermione, halfway between disapproval and amusement. \lquote Well, you\rquote ve done a good job on them.\rquote 
\par \lquote That\rquote s what yer little sister said,\rquote  said Hagrid, nodding at Ron. \lquote Met her jus\rquote  yesterday.\rquote  Hagrid looked sideways at Harry, his beard twitching. \lquote Said she was jus\rquote  lookin\rquote 
 round the grounds, but I reckon she was hopin\rquote  she might run inter someone else at my house.\rquote  He winked at Harry. \lquote If yeh ask me, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 she}{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  wouldn\rquote  say no ter a signed \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote Oh, shut up,\rquote  said Harry. Ron snorted with laughter and the ground was sprayed with slugs.
\par \lquote Watch it!\rquote  Hagrid roared, pulling Ron away from his precious pumpkins.
\par It was nearly lunchtime and as Harry had only had one bit of tre
acle toffee since dawn, he was keen to go back to school to eat. They said goodbye to Hagrid and walked back up to the castle, Ron hiccoughing occasionally, but only bringing up two, very small slugs.
\par They had barely set foot in the cool Entrance Hall when a voice rang out. \lquote There you are, Potter, Weasley.\rquote  Professor McGonagall was walking towards them, looking stern. \lquote You will both do your detentions this evening.\rquote 
\par \lquote What are we doing, Professor?\rquote  said Ron, nervously suppress\-ing a burp.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote You}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  will be polishing the silver in the trophy room with Mr Filch,\rquote 
 said Professor McGonagall. \lquote And no magic, Weasley \endash  elbow grease.\rquote 
\par Ron gulped. Argus Filch, the caretaker, was loathed by every student in the school.
\par \lquote And you, Potter, will be helping Professor Lockhart answer his fan mail,\rquote  said Professor McGonagall.
\par \lquote Oh no \endash  can\rquote t I go and do the trophy room, too?\rquote  said Harry desperately.
\par \lquote Certainly not,\rquote  said Professor McGonagall, raising her eye\-brows. \lquote Professor Lockhart requested you particularly. Eight o\rquote clock sharp, both of you.\rquote 
\par Harry and Ron slouched into the Great Hall in states of deepest gloom, Hermione behind them, wearing a }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 well-you-did-break-school-rules}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  sort of expression. Harry didn\rquote t fancy his shepherd\rquote s pie as much as he\rquote d thought. Both he and Ron felt they\rquote d got the worse deal.
\par \lquote Filch\rquote ll have me there all night,\rquote  said Ron heavily. \lquote No magic! There must be about a hundred cups in that room. I\rquote m no good at Muggle cleaning.\rquote 
\par \lquote I\rquote d swap any time,\rquote  said Harry hollowly. \lquote I\rquote ve had loads of prac\-tice with the Dursleys. Answering Lockhart\rquote s fan mail ... he\rquote ll be a nightmare ...\rquote 
\par Saturday afternoon seemed to melt away, and in what seemed like no time, it was five minutes to eight, and Harry was dragging his feet along the second-floor corridor to Lockhart\rquote s office. He gritted his teeth and knocked.
\par The door flew open at once. Lockhart beamed down at him.
\par \lquote Ah, here\rquote s the scallywag!\rquote  he said. \lquote Come in, Harry, come in.\rquote 
\par Shining brightly on the walls by the light of many candles were countless framed photographs of Lockhart. He had even signed a few of them. Another large pile lay on his desk.
\par \lquote You can address the envelopes!\rquote  Lockhart told Harry, as though this was a huge treat. \lquote This first one\rquote s to Gladys Gudgeon, bless her \endash  huge fan of mine.\rquote 
\par The minutes snailed by. Harry let Lockhart\rquote s voice wash over him, occasionally saying, \lquote Mmm\rquote  and \lquote Right\rquote  and \lquote Yeah\rquote . Now and then he caught a phrase like \lquote Fame\rquote s a fickle friend, Harry\rquote 
 or \lquote Celebrity is as celebrity does, remember that\rquote .
\par The candles burned lower and lower, making the light dance over the many moving faces of Lockhart watching him. Harry moved his aching hand over what felt like the thousandth envelope, writing out Veronica Smethley\rquote 
s address. It must be nearly time to leave, Harry thought miserably, please let it be nearly time ...
\par And then he heard something \endash  something quite apart from the spitting of the dying candles and Lockhart\rquote s prattle about his fans.
\par It was a voice, a voice to chill the bone-marrow, a voice of breath-taking, ice-cold venom.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Come ... come to me ... let me rip you ... let me tear you ... let me kill you }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 ...\rquote 
\par Harry gave a huge jump and a large lilac blot appeared on Veronica Smethley\rquote s street.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote What?\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  he said loudly.
\par \lquote I know!\rquote  said Lockhart. \lquote Six solid months at the top of the best\-seller list! Broke all records!\rquote 
\par \lquote No,\rquote  said Harry frantically. \lquote That voice!\rquote 
\par \lquote Sorry?\rquote  said Lockhart, looking puzzled. \lquote What voice?\rquote 
\par \lquote That \endash  that voice that said \endash  didn\rquote t you hear it?\rquote 
\par Lockhart was looking at Harry in high astonishment.
\par \lquote What }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 are}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  you talking about, Harry? Perhaps you\rquote 
re getting a little drowsy? Great Scott \endash  look at the time! We\rquote ve been here nearly four hours! I\rquote d never have believed it \endash  the time\rquote s flown, hasn\rquote t it?\rquote 
\par Harry didn\rquote t answer. He was straining his ears to hear the voice again, but there was no sound now except for Lockhart telling him he mustn\rquote t expect a treat like this every time he got detention. Feeling dazed, Harry left.
\par It was so late that the Gryffindor common room was almost empty. Harry went straight up to the dormitory. Ron wasn\rquote 
t back yet. Harry pulled on his pyjamas, got into bed and waited. Half an hour later, Ron arrived, nursing his right arm and bringing a strong smell of polish into the darkened room.
\par \lquote My muscles have all seized up,\rquote  he groaned, sinking on his bed. \lquote 
Fourteen times he made me buff up that Quidditch Cup before he was satisfied. And then I had another slug attack all over a Special Award for Services to the School. Took ages to shift the slime ... How was it with Lockhart?\rquote 
\par Keeping his voice low so as not to wake Neville, Dean and Seamus, Harry told Ron exactly what he had heard.
\par \lquote And Lockhart said he couldn\rquote t hear it?\rquote  said Ron. Harry could see him frowning in the moonlight. \lquote D\rquote you think he was lying? But I don\rquote t get it \endash  even someone invisible would\rquote ve had to open the door.
\rquote 
\par \lquote I know,\rquote  said Harry, lying back in his four-poster and staring at the canopy above him. \lquote I don\rquote t get it, either.\rquote 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \page 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \emdash  CHAPTER EIGHT \emdash 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sa280\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs56 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs56\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 The Deathday Party
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sa280\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
October arrived, spreading a damp chill over the grounds and into the castle. Madam Pomfrey, the matron, was kept busy by a sud\-
den spate of colds among the staff and students. Her Pepperup Potion worked instantly, though it left the drinker smoking at the
 ears for several hours afterwards. Ginny Weasley, who had been looking peaky, was bullied into taking some by Percy. The steam pouring from under her vivid hair gave the impression that her whole head was on fire.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Raindrops the size of bullets thundered o
n the castle windows for days on end; the lake rose, the flowerbeds turned into muddy streams and Hagrid\rquote s pumpkins swelled to the size of garden sheds. Oliver Wood\rquote 
s enthusiasm for regular training sessions, however, was not dampened, which was why Harry was to be found, late one stormy Saturday afternoon a few days before Hallowe\rquote 
en, returning to Gryffindor Tower, drenched to the skin and splattered with mud.
\par Even aside from the rain and wind it hadn\rquote t been a happy prac\-tice session. Fred and George, who 
had been spying on the Slytherin team, had seen for themselves the speed of those new Nimbus Two Thousand and Ones. They reported that the Slytherin team were no more than seven greenish blurs, shooting through the air like jump-jets.
\par As Harry squelched along the deserted corridor he came across somebody who looked just as preoccupied as he was. Nearly Headless Nick, the ghost of Gryffindor Tower, was staring morosely out of a window, muttering under his breath, \lquote ... don\rquote 
t fulfil their requirements ... half an inch, if that ...\rquote 
\par \lquote Hello, Nick,\rquote  said Harry.
\par \lquote Hello, hello,\rquote  said Nearly Headless Nick, starting and looking round. He wore a dashing, plumed hat on his long curly hair, and a tunic with a ruff, which concealed the fact that his neck was almost comple
tely severed. He was pale as smoke, and Harry could see right through him to the dark sky and torrential rain outside.
\par \lquote You look troubled, young Potter,\rquote  said Nick, folding a transpar\-ent letter as he spoke and tucking it inside his doublet.
\par \lquote So do you,\rquote  said Harry.
\par \lquote Ah,\rquote  Nearly Headless Nick waved an elegant hand, \lquote a matter of no importance ... it\rquote s not as though I really wanted to join ... thought I\rquote d apply, but apparently I \'93don\rquote t fulfil requirements\'94.\rquote 
\par In spite of his airy tone, there was a look of great bitterness on his face.
\par \lquote But you would think, wouldn\rquote t you,\rquote  he erupted suddenly, pulling the letter back out of his pocket, \lquote that getting hit forty-five times in the neck with a blunt axe would qualify you to join the Headless Hunt?\rquote 
\par \lquote Oh \endash  yes,\rquote  said Harry, who was obviously supposed to agree.
\par \lquote I mean, nobody wishes more than I do that it had all been quick and clean, and my head had come off properly, I mean, it would have saved me a great deal of pain and ridicule. However ...\rquote  Nearly Headless Nick sho
ok his letter open and read furiously.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote 
We can only accept huntsmen whose heads have parted company with their bodies. You will appreciate that it would be impossible otherwise for members to participate in hunt activities such as Horseback Head-Juggling a
nd Head Polo. It is with the greatest regret, therefore, that I must inform you that you do not fulfil our requirements. With very best wishes, Sir Patrick Delaney-Podmore.\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par Fuming, Nearly Headless Nick stuffed the letter away.
\par \lquote Half an inch of skin and sinew holding my neck on, Harry! Most people would think that\rquote s good and beheaded, but oh no, it\rquote s not enough for Sir Properly Decapitated-Podmore.\rquote 
\par Nearly Headless Nick took several deep breaths and then said, in a far calmer tone, \lquote So \endash  what\rquote s bothering you? Anything I can do?\rquote 
\par \lquote No,\rquote  said Harry. \lquote Not unless you know where we can get seven free Nimbus Two Thousand and Ones for our match against Sly}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \emdash }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \rquote 
\par The rest of Harry\rquote s sentence was drowned by a high-pitched mewing from somewhere near his ankles. He looked d
own and found himself gazing into a pair of lamp-like yellow eyes. It was Mrs Norris, the skeletal grey cat who was used by the caretaker, Argus Filch, as a sort of deputy in his endless battle against students.
\par \lquote You\rquote d better get out of here, Harry,\rquote  said Nick quickly. \lquote Filch isn\rquote t in a good mood. He\rquote s got flu and some third-years accidentally plastered frog brains all over the ceiling in dungeon five; he\rquote 
s been cleaning all morning, and if he sees you dripping mud all over the place ...\rquote 
\par \lquote Right,\rquote  said Harry, backing away from the accusing stare of Mrs Norris, but not quickly enough. Drawn to the spot by the mysteri\-ous power that seemed to connect him with his foul cat, Argus Filch burst suddenly through a tapestry to Harry
\rquote s right, wheezing and looking wildly about for the rule-breaker. There was a thick tartan scarf bound around his head, and his nose was unusually purple.
\par \lquote Filth!\rquote  he shouted, his jowls aquiver, his eyes popping alarm\-ingly as he pointed at the muddy puddle that had dripped from Harry\rquote s Quidditch robes. \lquote Mess and muck everywhere! I\rquote 
ve had enough of it, I tell you! Follow me, Potter!\rquote 
\par So Harry waved a gloomy goodbye to Nearly Headless Nick, and followed Filch back downstairs, doubling the number of muddy footprints on the floor.
\par Harry had never been inside Filch\rquote 
s office before; it was a place most students avoided. The room was dingy and windowless, lit by a single oil lamp dangling from the low ceiling. A faint smell of fried fish lingered about the place. Wooden filing cabinets
 stood around the walls; from their labels, Harry could see that they con\-tained details of every pupil Filch had ever punished. Fred and George Weasley had an entire drawer to themselves. A highly pol\-
ished collection of chains and manacles hung on the wall behind Filch\rquote s desk. It was common knowledge that he was always begging Dumbledore to let him suspend students by their ankles from the ceiling.
\par Filch grabbed a quill from a pot on his desk and began shuf\-fling around looking for parchment.
\par \lquote Dung,\rquote  he muttered furiously, \lquote great sizzling dragon bogies ... frog brains ... rat intestines ... I\rquote ve had enough of it ... make an }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
example}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  ...}{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 where\rquote s the form ... yes ...\rquote 
\par He retrieved a large roll of parchment from his desk drawer and stretched it out in front of him, dipping his long black quill into the ink pot.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Name}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  ...}{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Harry Potter. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Crime }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 ...\rquote 
\par \lquote It was only a bit of mud!\rquote  said Harry.
\par \lquote It\rquote s only a bit of mud to you, boy, but to me it\rquote s an extra hour scrubbing!\rquote  shouted Filch, a drip shivering unpleasantly at the end of his bulbous nose. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Crime}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  ...}{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 befouling the castle ... }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 suggested sentence}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  ...\rquote 
\par Dabbing at his streaming nose, Filch squinted unpleasantly at Harry, who waited with bated breath for his sentence to fall.
\par But as Filch lowered his quill, there was a great BANG! on the ceiling of the office, which made the oil lamp rattle.
\par \lquote PEEVES!\rquote  Filch roared, flinging down his quill in a transport of rage. \lquote I\rquote ll have you this time, I\rquote ll have you!\rquote 
\par And without a backwards glance at Harry, Filch ran flat-footed from the office, Mrs Norris streaking alongside him.
\par Peeves was the school poltergeist, a grinning, airborne menace who lived to cause havoc and distress. Harry didn\rquote t much like Peeves, but couldn\rquote t help feeling grateful
 for his timing. Hopefully, whatever Peeves had done (and it sounded as though he\rquote d wrecked something very big this time) would distract Filch from Harry.
\par Thinking that he should probably wait for Filch to come back, Harry sank into a moth-eaten chair next
 to the desk. There was only one thing on it apart from his half-completed form: a large, glossy, purple envelope with silver lettering on the front. With a quick glance at the door to check that Filch wasn\rquote 
t on his way back, Harry picked up the envelope and read:
\par 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 KWIKSPELL}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 

\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 A Correspondence Course in}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Beginners\rquote  Magic}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
Intrigued, Harry flicked the envelope open and pulled out the sheaf of parchment inside. More curly silver writing on the front page said:
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li284\ri284\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin284\lin284\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Feel out of step in the world of modern magic? Find
 yourself making excuses not to perform simple spells? Ever been taunted for your woeful wandwork?}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par There is an answer!
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Kwikspell is an all-new, fail-safe, quick-result, easy-learn course. Hundreds of witches and wizards have benefited from the Kwikspell method!}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 
\ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Madam Z. Nettles of Topsham writes:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote I had no memory for incantations and my potions were a family}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 joke! Now, after a Kwikspell course, I am the centre of attention}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  }{\rtlch\fcs1 
\ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 at parties and friends beg for the recipe of my Scintillation}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 
\ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Solution!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Warlock D.J. Prod of Didsbury says:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote My wife used to sneer at my feeble charms but one month into your fabulous Kwikspell course I succeeded in turning her into a yak! Thank you, Kwikspell!
\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Fascinated, Harry thumbed through the rest of the envelope\rquote s con\-
tents. Why on earth did Filch want a Kwikspell course? Did this mean he wasn\rquote t a proper wizard? Harry was just reading \lquote Lesson One: Holding Your Wand (Some Useful Tips)\rquote 
 when shuffling footsteps outside told him Filch was coming back. Stuffing the parchment back into the envelope, Harry threw it back onto the desk just as the door opened.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Filch was looking triumphant.
\par \lquote That vanishing cabinet was extremely valuable!\rquote  he was saying gleefully to Mrs Norris. \lquote We\rquote ll have Peeves out this time, my sweet.\rquote 
\par His eyes fell on Harry and then darted to the Kwikspell enve\-lope which, Harry realised too late, was lying two feet away from where it had started.
\par Filch\rquote s pasty face went brick red. Harry braced himself for a tidal wave of fury. Filch hobbled across to his desk, snatched up the envelope and threw it into a drawer.
\par \lquote Have you \endash  did you read \endash ?\rquote  he spluttered.
\par \lquote No,\rquote  Harry lied quickly.
\par Filch\rquote s knobbly hands were twisting together.
\par \lquote If I thought you\rquote d read my private ... not that it\rquote s mine ... for a friend ... be that as it may ... however ...\rquote 
\par Harry was staring at him, alarmed; Filch had never looked madder. His eyes were popping, a tic was going in one of his pouchy cheeks and the tartan scarf didn\rquote t help.
\par \lquote Very well ... go ... and don\rquote t breathe a word ... not that ... how\-ever, if you didn\rquote t read ... go now, I have to write up Peeves\rquote  report ... go ...\rquote 
\par Amazed at his luck, Harry sped out of the office, up the corri\-dor and back upstairs. To escape from Filch\rquote s office without pun\-ishment was probably some kind of school record.
\par \lquote Harry! Harry! Did it work?\rquote 
\par Nearly Headless Nick came gliding out of a classroom. Behind him, Harry could see the wreckage of a large black and gold cabi\-net which appeared to have been dropped from a great height.
\par \lquote I persuaded Peeves to crash it right over Filch\rquote s office,\rquote  said Nick eagerly. \lquote Thought it might distract him \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote Was that you?\rquote  said Harry gratefully. \lquote Yeah, it worked, I didn\rquote t even get detention. Thanks, Nick!\rquote 
\par They set off up the corridor together. Nearly Headless Nick, Harry noticed, was still holding Sir Patrick\rquote s rejection letter.
\par \lquote I wish there was something I could do for you about the Headless Hunt,\rquote  Harry said.
\par Nearly Headless Nick stopped in his tracks and Harry walked right through him. He wished he hadn\rquote t; it was like stepping through an icy shower.
\par \lquote But there }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 is}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  something you could do for me,\rquote  said Nick excited\-
ly. \lquote Harry \endash  would I be asking too much \endash  but no, you wouldn\rquote t want \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote What is it?\rquote  said Harry.
\par \lquote Well, this Hallowe\rquote en will be my five hundredth deathday,\rquote  said Nearly Headless Nick, drawing himself up and looking dignified.
\par \lquote Oh,\rquote  said Harry, not sure whether he should look sorry or happy about this. \lquote Right.\rquote 
\par \lquote I\rquote m holding a party down in one of the roomier dungeons. Friends will be coming from all over the country. It would be such an }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 honour}{\rtlch\fcs1 
\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  if you would attend. Mr Weasley and Miss Granger would be most welcome too, of course \endash  but I dare say you\rquote d rather go to the school feast?\rquote 
 He watched Harry on tenterhooks.
\par \lquote No,\rquote  said Harry quickly, \lquote I\rquote ll come \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote My dear boy! Harry Potter, at my Deathday Party! And,\rquote  he hes\-itated, looking excited, \lquote do you think you could }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 possibly}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 
\ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  mention to Sir Patrick how }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 very}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  frightening and impressive you find me?\rquote 
\par \lquote Of \endash  of course,\rquote  said Harry.
\par Nearly Headless Nick beamed at him.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 *
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote A Deathday Party?\rquote 
 said Hermione keenly, when Harry had changed at last and joined her and Ron in the common room. \lquote I bet there aren\rquote t many living people who can say they\rquote ve been to one of those \endash  it\rquote ll be fascinating!\rquote 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Why would anyone want to celebrate the day they died?\rquote 
 said Ron, who was halfway through his Potions homework and grumpy. \lquote Sounds dead depressing to me ...\rquote 
\par Rain was s
till lashing the windows, which were now inky black, but inside, all looked bright and cheerful. The firelight glowed over the countless squashy armchairs where people sat reading, talking, doing homework or, in the case of Fred and George Weasley, trying
 to find out what would happen if you fed a Filibuster Firework to a Salamander. Fred had \lquote rescued\rquote  the bril\-
liant orange, fire-dwelling lizard from a Care of Magical Creatures class and it was now smouldering gently on a table surrounded by a knot of curious people.
\par Harry was on the point of telling Ron and Hermione about Filch and the Kwikspell course when the Salamander suddenly whizzed into the air, emitting loud sparks and bangs as it whirled wildly round the room. The sight of Percy bellowing himself h
oarse at Fred and George, the spectacular display of tangerine stars showering from the Salamander\rquote s mouth, and its escape into the fire, with accompanying explosions, drove both Filch and the Kwikspell envelope from Harry\rquote s mind.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 *
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 By the time Hallowe\rquote en 
arrived, Harry was regretting his rash promise to go to the Deathday Party. The rest of the school were happily anticipating their Hallowe\rquote en feast; the Great Hall had been decorated with the usual live bats, Hagrid\rquote 
s vast pumpkins had been carved into lanterns large enough for three men to sit in and there were rumours that Dumbledore had booked a troupe of dancing skeletons for the entertainment.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote A promise is a promise,\rquote  Hermione reminded Harry bossily. \lquote You }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 said}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  you\rquote d go to the Deathday Party.\rquote 
\par So, at seven o\rquote clock, Harry, Ron and Hermione walked straight past the doorway to the packed Great Hall, which was glittering invitingly with gold plates and candles, and directed their steps instead towards the dungeons.
\par The passageway leading to Nearly Headless Nick\rquote s party had been lined with candles too, though the effect was far from cheer\-
ful: these were long, thin, jet-black tapers, all burning bright blue, casting a dim, ghostly light even over their own living faces. The temperature dropped with every step
 they took. As Harry shivered and drew his robes tightly around him, he heard what sounded like a thousand fingernails scraping an enormous blackboard.
\par \lquote Is that supposed to be }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 music?\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
 Ron whispered. They turned a corner and saw Nearly Headless Nick standing at a doorway hung with black velvet drapes.
\par \lquote My dear friends,\rquote  he said mournfully, \lquote welcome, welcome ... so pleased you could come ...\rquote 
\par He swept off his plumed hat and bowed them inside.
\par It was an incredible sight. The dungeon was full of hundreds of pearly-white, translucent people, mostly drifting around a crowd\-
ed dance floor, waltzing to the dreadful, quavering sound of thirty musical saws, played by an orchestra on a black-draped plat
form. A chandelier overhead blazed midnight blue with a thousand more black candles. Their breath rose in a mist before them; it was like stepping into a freezer.
\par \lquote Shall we have a look around?\rquote  Harry suggested, wanting to warm up his feet.
\par \lquote Careful not to walk through anyone,\rquote 
 said Ron nervously, and they set off around the edge of the dance floor. They passed a group of gloomy nuns, a ragged man wearing chains, and the Fat Friar, a cheerful Hufflepuff ghost, who was talking to a knight with an arrow sticki
ng out of his forehead. Harry wasn\rquote t surprised to see that the Bloody Baron, a gaunt, staring Slytherin ghost cov\-ered in silver bloodstains, was being given a wide berth by the other ghosts.
\par \lquote Oh no,\rquote  said Hermione, stopping abruptly. \lquote Turn back, turn back, I don\rquote t want to talk to Moaning Myrtle \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote Who?\rquote  said Harry, as they backtracked quickly.
\par \lquote She haunts the girls\rquote  toilet on the first floor,\rquote  said Hermione.
\par \lquote She haunts a }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 toilet?\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par \lquote Yes. It\rquote s been out of order all year because she keeps having tantrums and flooding the place. I never went in there anyway if I could avoid it, it\rquote s awful trying to go to the loo with her wailing at you \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote Look, food!\rquote  said Ron.
\par On the other side of the dungeon was a long table, also covered in black velvet. They approached it
 eagerly, but next moment had stopped in their tracks, horrified. The smell was quite disgusting. Large, rotten fish were laid on handsome silver platters; cakes, burned charcoal black, were heaped on salvers; there was a great maggoty haggis, a slab of c
heese covered in furry green mould and, in pride of place, an enormous grey cake in the shape of a tombstone, with tar-like icing forming the words,
\par 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Sir Nicholas de Mimsy-Porpington
\par died 31st October, 1492}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Harry watched, amazed, as a portly ghost approach
ed the table, crouched low and walked through it, his mouth held wide so that it passed through one of the stinking salmon.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Can you taste it if you walk through it?\rquote  Harry asked him.
\par \lquote Almost,\rquote  said the ghost sadly, and he drifted away.
\par \lquote I expect they\rquote ve let it rot to give it a stronger flavour,\rquote  said Hermione knowledgeably, pinching her nose and leaning closer to look at the putrid haggis.
\par \lquote Can we move? I feel sick,\rquote  said Ron.
\par They had barely turned around, however, when a little man swooped suddenly from under the table and came to a halt in mid-air before them.
\par \lquote Hello, Peeves,\rquote  said Harry cautiously.
\par Unlike the ghosts around them, Peeves the poltergeist was the very reverse of pale and transparent. He was wearing a bright orange party hat, a revolving bow-tie and a broad grin on his wide, wicked face.
\par \lquote Nibbles?\rquote  he said sweetly, offering them a bowl of peanuts cov\-ered in fungus.
\par \lquote No thanks,\rquote  said Hermione.
\par \lquote Heard you talking about poor Myrtle,\rquote  said Peeves, his eyes dancing. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Rude}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  you was about poor Myrtle.\rquote  He took a deep breath and bellowed, \lquote OY! MYRTLE!\rquote 
\par \lquote Oh, no, Peeves, don\rquote t tell her what I said, she\rquote ll be really upset,\rquote  Hermione whispered frantically. \lquote I didn\rquote t mean it, I don\rquote t mind her \endash  er, hello, Myrtle.\rquote 
\par The squat ghost of a girl had glided over. She had the glummest face Harry had ever seen, half-hidden behind lank hair and thick, pearly spectacles.
\par \lquote What?\rquote  she said sulkily.
\par \lquote How are you, Myrtle?\rquote  said Hermione, in a falsely bright voice. \lquote It\rquote s nice to see you out of the toilet.\rquote 
\par Myrtle sniffed.
\par \lquote Miss Granger was just talking about you \endash \rquote  said Peeves slyly in Myrtle\rquote s ear.
\par \lquote Just saying \endash  saying \endash  how nice you look tonight,\rquote  said Hermione, glaring at Peeves.
\par Myrtle eyed Hermione suspiciously.
\par \lquote You\rquote re making fun of me,\rquote  she said, silver tears welling rapidly in her small, see-through eyes.
\par \lquote No \endash  honestly \endash  didn\rquote t I just say how nice Myrtle\rquote s looking?\rquote  said Hermione, nudging Harry and Ron painfully in the ribs.
\par \lquote Oh, yeah ...\rquote 
\par \lquote She did ...\rquote 
\par \lquote Don\rquote t lie to me,\rquote  Myrtle gasped, tears now flooding down her face, while Peeves chuckled happily over her shoulder. \lquote D\rquote you think I don\rquote 
t know what people call me behind my back? Fat Myrtle! Ugly Myrtle! Miserable, moaning, moping Myrtle!\rquote 
\par \lquote You\rquote ve missed out \'93spotty\'94,\rquote  Peeves hissed in her ear.
\par Moaning Myrtle burst into anguished sobs and fled from the dungeon. Peeves shot after her, pelting her with mouldy peanuts, yelling, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Spotty! Spotty!\rquote }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par \lquote Oh, dear,\rquote  said Hermione sadly.
\par Nearly Headless Nick now drifted towards them through the crowd.
\par \lquote Enjoying yourselves?\rquote 
\par \lquote Oh, yes,\rquote  they lied.
\par \lquote Not a bad turnout,\rquote  said Nearly Headless Nick proudly. \lquote The Wailing Widow came all the way up from Kent ... It\rquote s nearly time for my speech, I\rquote d better go and warn the orchestra ...\rquote 
\par The orchestra, however, stopped playing at that very moment. They, and everyone else in the dungeon, fell silent, looking around in excitement, as a hunting horn sounded.
\par \lquote Oh, here we go,\rquote  said Nearly Headless Nick bitterly.
\par Through the dungeon wall burst a dozen ghost horses, each ridden by a headless horseman. The assembly clapped wildly; Harry started to clap too, but stopped quickly at the sight of Nick\rquote s face.
\par The horses galloped into the middle of the dance floor and halted, rearing and plunging; a large ghost at the front, whose be
arded head was under his arm, blowing the horn, leapt down, lifted his head high in the air so he could see over the crowd (everyone laughed) and strode over to Nearly Headless Nick, squashing his head back onto his neck.
\par \lquote Nick!\rquote  he roared. \lquote How are you? Head still hanging in there?\rquote 
\par He gave a hearty guffaw and clapped Nearly Headless Nick on the shoulder.
\par \lquote Welcome, Patrick,\rquote  said Nick stiffly.
\par \lquote Live \rquote uns!\rquote  said Sir Patrick, spotting Harry, Ron and Hermione and giving a huge, fake jump of astonishment, so that his head fell off again (the crowd howled with laughter).
\par \lquote Very amusing,\rquote  said Nearly Headless Nick darkly.
\par \lquote Don\rquote t mind Nick!\rquote  shouted Sir Patrick\rquote s head from the floor. \lquote Still upset we won\rquote t let him join the Hunt! But I mean to say \endash  look at the fellow \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote I think,\rquote  said Harry hurriedly, at a meaningful look from Nick, \lquote Nick\rquote s very \endash  frightening and \endash  er \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote Ha!\rquote  yelled Sir Patrick\rquote s head. \lquote Bet he asked you to say that!\rquote 
\par \lquote If I could have everyone\rquote s attention, it\rquote s time for my speech!\rquote  said Nearly Headless Nick loudly, striding towards the podium and climbing into an icy-blue spotlight.
\par \lquote My late lamented lords, ladies and gentlemen, it is my great sorrow ...\rquote 
\par But nobody heard much more. Sir Patrick and the rest of the Headless Hunt had just started a game of Head Hockey and the crowd were turning to watch. Nearly Headless Nick tried vainly to recapture his audience, but gave up as Sir Patrick\rquote 
s head went sail\-ing past him to loud cheers.
\par Harry was very cold by now, not to mention hungry.
\par \lquote I can\rquote t stand much more of this,\rquote  Ron muttered, his teeth chat\-tering, as the orchestra ground back into action and the ghosts swept back onto the dance floor.
\par \lquote Let\rquote s go,\rquote  Harry agreed.
\par They backed towards the door, nodding and beaming at anyone who looked at them, and a minute later were hurrying back up the passageway full of black candles.
\par \lquote Pudding might not be finished yet,\rquote  said Ron hopefully, leading the way towards the steps to the Entrance Hall.
\par And then Harry heard it.
\par \lquote ... }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 rip ... tear ... kill }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 ...\rquote 
\par It was the same voice, the same cold, murderous voice he had heard in Lockhart\rquote s office.
\par He stumbled to a halt, clutching at the stone wall, listening with all his might, looking around, squinting up and down the dimly lit passageway.
\par \lquote Harry, what\rquote re you \endash ?\rquote 
\par \lquote It\rquote s that voice again \endash  shut up a minute \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote ...}{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  soo hungry ... for so long}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  ...\rquote 
\par \lquote Listen!\rquote  said Harry urgently, and Ron and Hermione froze, watching him.
\par \lquote ... }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 kill ... time to kill}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  ...\rquote 
\par The voice was growing fainter. Harry was sure it was moving away \endash  moving upwards. A mixture of fear and excitement gripped him as he stared at the dark ceiling; how could it be mov\-ing upwards? Was it a phantom, to whom stone ceilings didn
\rquote t matter?
\par \lquote This way,\rquote  he shouted, and he began to run, up the stairs, into the Entrance Hall. It was no good hoping to hear anything here, the babble of talk from the Hallowe\rquote 
en feast was echoing out of the Great Hall. Harry sprinted up the marble staircase to the first floor, Ron and Hermione clattering behind him.
\par \lquote Harry, what are we \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote SHH!\rquote 
\par Harry strained his ears. Distantly, from the floor above, and growing fainter still, he heard the voice: \lquote ... }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 I smell blood ... I SMELL BLOOD!\rquote }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par His stomach lurched. \lquote It\rquote s going to kill someone!\rquote  he shouted, and ignoring Ron and Hermione\rquote s bewildered faces, he ran up the next flight of steps three at a time, trying to listen over his own pounding footsteps.
\par Harry hurtled around the whole of the second floor, Ron and Hermione panting behind him, not stopping until they turned a corner into the last, deserted passage.
\par \lquote Harry, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 what}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  was that all about?\rquote 
 said Ron, wiping sweat off his face. \lquote I couldn\rquote t hear anything ...\rquote 
\par But Hermione gave a sudden gasp, pointing down the corridor.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Look!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par Something was shining on the wall ahead. They approached, slowly, squinting through the darkness. Foot-high words had been daubed on the wall between two windows, shimmering in the light cast by the flaming torches.
\par 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS HAS BEEN OPENED.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 ENEMIES OF THE HEIR, BEWARE.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote What\rquote s that thing \endash  hanging underneath?\rquote 
 said Ron, a slight quiver in his voice.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 As they edged nearer, Harry almost slipped over: there was a large
 puddle of water on the floor. Ron and Hermione grabbed him, and they inched towards the message, eyes fixed on a dark shadow beneath it. All three of them realised what it was at once, and leapt backwards with a splash.
\par Mrs Norris, the caretaker\rquote s cat, was hanging by her tail from the torch bracket. She was stiff as a board, her eyes wide and staring.
\par For a few seconds, they didn\rquote t move. Then Ron said, \lquote Let\rquote s get out of here.\rquote 
\par \lquote Shouldn\rquote t we try and help \endash \rquote  Harry began awkwardly.
\par \lquote Trust me,\rquote  said Ron. \lquote We don\rquote t want to be found here.\rquote 
\par But it was too late. A rumble, as though of distant thunder, told them that the feast had just ended. From either end of the cor\-ridor where they stood came the sound of hundreds of feet climb\-ing the stairs, and the loud, happ
y talk of well-fed people; next moment, students were crashing into the passage from both ends.
\par The chatter, the bustle, the noise died suddenly as the people in front spotted the hanging cat. Harry, Ron and Hermione stood alone, in the middle of the corridor, as silence fell among the mass of students, pressing forward to see the grisly sight.

\par Then someone shouted through the quiet.
\par \lquote Enemies of the heir, beware! You\rquote ll be next, Mudbloods!\rquote 
\par It was Draco Malfoy. He had pushed to the front of the crowd, his cold eyes alive, his usually bloodless face flushed, as he grinned at the sight of the hanging, immobile cat.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \page 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \emdash  CHAPTER NINE \emdash 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sa280\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs56 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs56\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 The Writing on the Wall
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sa280\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote What\rquote s going on here? What\rquote s going on?\rquote 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Attracted no doubt by Malfoy\rquote s shout, Argus Filch came shoul\-
dering his way through the crowd. Then he saw Mrs Norris and fell back, clutching his face in horror.
\par \lquote My cat! My cat! What\rquote s happened to Mrs Norris?\rquote  he shrieked.
\par And his popping eyes fell on Harry.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote You!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  he screeched, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote You!}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  You\rquote ve murdered my cat! You\rquote ve killed her! I\rquote ll kill you! I\rquote ll \endash 
\rquote 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Argus!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par Dumbledore had arrived on the scene, followed by a number of other teachers. In seconds, he had swept past Harry, Ron and Hermione and detached Mrs Norris from the torch bracket.
\par \lquote Come with me, Argus,\rquote  he said to Filch. \lquote You too, Mr Potter, Mr Weasley, Miss Granger.\rquote 
\par Lockhart stepped forward eagerly.
\par \lquote My office is nearest, Headmaster \endash  just upstairs \endash  please feel free \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote Thank you, Gilderoy,\rquote  said Dumbledore.
\par The silent crowd parted to let them pass. Lockhart, looking excited and important, hurried after Dumbledore; so did Professors McGonagall and Snape.
\par As they entered Lockhart\rquote s darkened office there was a flurry of movement across the walls; Harry saw several of the Lockharts in the pictures dodging out of 
sight, their hair in rollers. The real Lockhart lit the candles on his desk and stood back. Dumbledore laid Mrs Norris on the polished surface and began to examine her. Harry, Ron and Hermione exchanged tense looks and sank into chairs outside the pool of
 candlelight, watching.
\par The tip of Dumbledore\rquote s long, crooked nose was barely an inch from Mrs Norris\rquote s fur. He was looking at her closely through his half-moon spectacles, his long fingers gently prodding and poking. Professor McGonagall was bent almost as
 close, her eyes narrowed. Snape loomed behind them, half in shadow, wearing a most peculiar expression: it was as though he was trying hard not to smile. And Lockhart was hovering around all of them, making suggestions.
\par \lquote It was definitely a curse that killed her \endash  probably the Transmogrifian Torture. I\rquote ve seen it used many times, so unlucky I wasn\rquote t there, I know the very counter-curse that would have saved her ...\rquote 
\par Lockhart\rquote s comments were punctuated by Filch\rquote s dry, racking sobs. He was slumped in a chair by the desk, unable to look at Mrs Norris, his face in his hands. Much as he detested Filch, Harry couldn\rquote 
t help feeling a bit sorry for him, though not nearly as sorry as he felt for himself. If Dumbledore believed Filch, he would be expelled for sure.
\par Dumbledore was now muttering strange words under his breath and tapping Mrs Norris with his wand, but nothing hap\-pened: she continued to look as though she had been recently stuffed.
\par \lquote ... I remember something very similar happening in Ouagadougou,\rquote  said Lockhart, \lquote a series of attacks, the full story\rquote s in my autobiography. I was able to provide the townsfolk with vari\-
ous amulets which cleared the matter up at once ...\rquote 
\par The photographs of Lockhart on the walls were all nodding in agreement as he talked. One of them had forgotten to remove his hairnet.
\par At last Dumbledore straightened up.
\par \lquote She\rquote s not dead, Argus,\rquote  he said softly.
\par Lockhart stopped abruptly in the middle of counting the num\-ber of murders he had prevented.
\par \lquote Not dead?\rquote  choked Filch, looking through his fingers at Mrs Norris. \lquote But why\rquote s she all \endash  all stiff and frozen?\rquote 
\par \lquote She has been Petrified,\rquote  said Dumbledore (\lquote Ah! I thought so!\rquote  said Lockhart). \lquote But how, I cannot say ...\rquote 
\par \lquote Ask }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 him!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  shrieked Filch, turning his blotched
 and tear-stained face to Harry.
\par \lquote No second-year could have done this,\rquote  said Dumbledore firmly. \lquote It would take Dark Magic of the most advanced \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote He did it, he did it!\rquote  Filch spat, his pouchy face purpling. \lquote You saw what he wrote on the wall! He found \endash  in my office \endash  he knows I\rquote m a \endash  I\rquote m a \endash \rquote  Filch\rquote 
s face worked horribly. \lquote He knows I\rquote m a Squib!\rquote  he finished.
\par \lquote I never }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 touched}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Mrs Norris!\rquote 
 Harry said loudly, uncomfortably aware of everyone looking at him, including all the Lockharts on the walls. \lquote And I don\rquote t even know what a Squib }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 is.
\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par \lquote Rubbish!\rquote  snarled Filch. \lquote He saw my Kwikspell letter!\rquote 
\par \lquote If I might speak, Headmaster,\rquote  said Snape from the shadows, and Harry\rquote s sense of foreboding increased; he was sure nothing Snape had to say was going to do him any good.
\par \lquote Potter and his friends may have simply been in the wrong place at the wrong time,\rquote  he said, a slight sneer curling his mouth as though he doubted it, \lquote but we do have a set of suspicious cir\-
cumstances here. Why were they in the upstairs corridor at all? Why weren\rquote t they at the Hallowe\rquote en feast?\rquote 
\par Harry, Ron and Hermione all launched into an explanation about the Deathday Party, \lquote ... there were hundreds of ghosts, they\rquote ll tell you we were there \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote But why not join the feast afterwards?\rquote  said Snape, his black eyes glittering in the candlelight. \lquote Why go up to that corridor?\rquote 
\par Ron and Hermione looked at Harry.
\par \lquote Because \endash  because \endash \rquote  Harry said, his heart thumping very fast; something told him it would sound very far-fetched if he told them he had been led there by a bodiless voice no one but he could hear, \lquote 
because we were tired and wanted to go to bed,\rquote  he said.
\par \lquote Without any supper?\rquote  said Snape, a triumphant smile flickering across his gaunt face. \lquote I didn\rquote t think ghosts provided food fit for living people at their parties.\rquote 
\par \lquote We weren\rquote t hungry,\rquote  said Ron loudly, as his stomach gave a huge rumble.
\par Snape\rquote s nasty smile widened.
\par \lquote I suggest, Headmaster, that Potter is not being entirely truth\-ful,\rquote  he said. \lquote It might be a good idea if he were deprived of certain privi
leges until he is ready to tell us the whole story. I personally feel he should be taken off the Gryffindor Quidditch team until he is ready to be honest.\rquote 
\par \lquote Really, Severus,\rquote  said Professor McGonagall sharply, \lquote I see no reason to stop the boy playing Quidditch. This cat wasn\rquote t hit over the head with a broomstick. There is no evidence at all that Potter has done anything wrong.
\rquote 
\par Dumbledore was giving Harry a searching look. His twinkling light-blue gaze made Harry feel as though he was being X-rayed.
\par \lquote Innocent until proven guilty, Severus,\rquote  he said firmly.
\par Snape looked furious. So did Filch.
\par \lquote My cat has been Petrified!\rquote  he shrieked, his eyes popping. \lquote I want to see some }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 punishment!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par We will be able to cure her, Argus,\rquote  said Dumbledore patiently. \lquote Professor Sprout recently managed to procure some Mandrakes. As soon as they have reached their full size, I will have a potion made which will revive Mrs Norris.\rquote 

\par \lquote I\rquote ll make it,\rquote  Lockhart butted in. \lquote I must have done it a hundred times, I could whip up a Mandrake Restorative Draught in my sleep \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote Excuse me,\rquote  said Snape icily, \lquote but I believe I am the Potions master at this school.\rquote 
\par There was a very awkward pause.
\par \lquote You may go,\rquote  Dumbledore said to Harry, Ron and Hermione.
\par They went, as quickly as they could without actually running. When they were a floor up from Lockhart\rquote s office, they turned into an empty classroom and closed the door quietly behind them. Harry squinted at his friends\rquote  darkened faces.

\par \lquote D\rquote you think I should have told them about that voice I heard?\rquote 
\par \lquote No,\rquote  said Ron, without hesitation. \lquote Hearing voices no one else can hear isn\rquote t a good sign, even in the wizarding world.\rquote 
\par Something in Ron\rquote s voice made Harry ask, \lquote You do believe me, don\rquote t you?\rquote 
\par \lquote  \rquote Course I do,\rquote  said Ron quickly. \lquote But \endash  you must admit it\rquote s weird ...\rquote 
\par \lquote I know it\rquote s weird,\rquote  said Harry. \lquote The whole thing\rquote s weird. What was that writing on the wall about? }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 The Chamber has been opened}{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 ...}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  what\rquote s that supposed to mean?\rquote 
\par \lquote You know, it rings a sort of bell,\rquote  said Ron slowly. \lquote I think some\-one told me a story about a secret chamber at Hogwarts once ... might\rquote ve been Bill ...\rquote 
\par \lquote And what on earth\rquote s a Squib?\rquote  said Harry.
\par To his surprise, Ron stifled a snigger.
\par \lquote Well \endash  it\rquote s not funny really \endash  but as it\rquote s Filch ...\rquote  he said. \lquote A Squib is someone who was born into a wizarding family but hasn\rquote 
t got any magic powers. Kind of the opposite of Muggle-born wizards, but Squibs are quite unusual. If Filch\rquote s trying to learn magic from a Kwikspell course, I reckon he must be a Squib. It would explain a lot. Like why he hates students so much.
\rquote  Ron gave a satisfied smile. \lquote He\rquote s bitter.\rquote 
\par A clock chimed somewhere.
\par \lquote Midnight,\rquote  said Harry. \lquote We\rquote d better get to bed before Snape comes along and tries to frame us for something else.\rquote 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 *
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Fo
r a few days, the school could talk of little but the attack on Mrs Norris. Filch kept it fresh in everyone\rquote 
s minds by pacing the spot where she had been attacked, as though he thought the attacker might come back. Harry had seen him scrubbing the message on the wall with \lquote Mrs Skower\rquote s All-Purpose Magical Mess Remover\rquote 
, but to no effect; the words still gleamed as brightly as ever on the stone. When Filch wasn\rquote t guarding the scene of the crime, he was skulking red-eyed through the corridors, lunging out at 
unsuspecting students and trying to put them in detention for things like \lquote breathing loudly\rquote  and \lquote looking happy\rquote .
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Ginny Weasley seemed very disturbed by Mrs Norris\rquote 
s fate. According to Ron, she was a great cat-lover.
\par \lquote But you hadn\rquote t really got to know Mrs Norris,\rquote  Ron told her bracingly. \lquote Honestly, we\rquote re much better off without her.\rquote  Ginny\rquote s lip trembled. \lquote Stuff like this doesn\rquote t often happen at Hogwarts,
\rquote  Ron assured her. \lquote They\rquote ll catch the nutter who did it and have him out of here in no time. I just hope he\rquote s got time to Petrify Filch before he\rquote s expelled. I\rquote m only joking \endash \rquote 
 Ron added hastily, as Ginny blanched.
\par The attack had also had an effect on Hermione. It was quite usual for Hermione to spend a lot of time reading, but she was now doing almost nothi
ng else. Nor could Harry and Ron get much response from her when they asked what she was up to, and not until the following Wednesday did they find out.
\par Harry had been held back in Potions, where Snape had made him stay behind to scrape tubeworms off the desks. After a hur\-
ried lunch, he went upstairs to meet Ron in the library, and saw Justin Finch-Fletchley, the Hufflepuff boy from Herbology, coming towards him. Harry had just opened his mouth to say hello when Justin caught sight of him, turned abruptly 
and sped off in the opposite direction.
\par Harry found Ron at the back of the library, measuring his History of Magic homework. Professor Binns had asked for a three-foot long composition on \lquote The Medieval Assembly of European Wizards\rquote .
\par \lquote I don\rquote t believe it, I\rquote m still eight inches short ...\rquote  said Ron furi\-ously, letting go of his parchment, which sprang back into a roll, \lquote and Hermione\rquote s done four feet seven inches and her writing\rquote s }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 tiny.\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par Where is she?\rquote  asked Harry, grabbing the tape measure and unrolling his own homework.
\par \lquote Somewhere over there,\rquote  said Ron, pointing along the shelves, \lquote looking for another book. I think she\rquote s trying to read the whole library before Christmas.\rquote 
\par Harry told Ron about Justin Finch-Fletchley running away from him.
\par \lquote Dunno why you care, I thought he was a bit of an idiot,\rquote  said Ron, scribbling away, making his writing as large as possible. \lquote All that rubbish about Lockhart being so great \endash \rquote 
\par Hermione emerged from between the bookshelves. She looked irritable and at last seemed ready to talk to them.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote All}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  the copies of }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Hogwarts: A History}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  have been taken out,\rquote  she said, sitting down next to Harry and Ron. \lquote And there
\rquote s a two-week waiting list. I }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 wish}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  I hadn\rquote 
t left my copy at home, but I couldn\rquote t fit it in my trunk with all the Lockhart books.\rquote 
\par \lquote Why do you want it?\rquote  said Harry.
\par \lquote The same reason everyone else wants it,\rquote  said Hermione, \lquote to read up on the legend of the Chamber of Secrets.\rquote 
\par \lquote What\rquote s that?\rquote  said Harry quickly.
\par \lquote That\rquote s just it. I can\rquote t remember,\rquote  said Hermione, biting her lip. \lquote And I can\rquote t find the story anywhere else \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote Hermione, let me read your composition,\rquote  said Ron desperately, checking his watch.
\par \lquote No, I won\rquote t,\rquote  said Hermione, suddenly severe. \lquote You\rquote ve had ten days to finish it.\rquote 
\par \lquote I only need another two inches, go on ...\rquote 
\par The bell rang. Ron and Hermione led the way to History of Magic, bickering.
\par History of Magic was the dullest subject on their timetable. Professor Binns, who taught it, was their only ghost teacher, and the most exciting thing that ever happened in his classes was his entering the room through the blackboard. Ancient and shriv\-
elled, many people said he hadn\rquote t noticed he was dead. He had simply got up to teach one day and left his body behind him in an armchair in front of the staff-room fire; his routine had not varied in the slightest since.
\par Today was as boring as ever. Professor Binns opened his notes and began to read in a flat drone like an old vacuum cleaner until nearly everyone in the class was in a deep stupor, occasionally coming round long enough to copy d
own a name or date, then falling asleep again. He had been speaking for half an hour when something happened that had never happened before. Hermione put up her hand.
\par Professor Binns, glancing up in the middle of a deadly dull lec\-ture on the International Warlock Convention of 1289, looked amazed.
\par \lquote Miss \endash  er \endash ?\rquote 
\par \lquote Granger, Professor. I was wondering if you could tell us any\-thing about the Chamber of Secrets,\rquote  said Hermione in a clear voice.
\par Dean Thomas, who had been sitting with his mouth hanging open, gazing out of the window, jerked out of his trance; Lavender Brown\rquote s head came up off her arms and Neville\rquote s elbow slipped off his desk.
\par Professor Binns blinked.
\par \lquote My subject is History of Magic,\rquote  he said in his dry, wheezy voice. \lquote I deal with }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 facts,}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Miss Granger, not myths and legends.\rquote  He cleared his throat with a small noise like chalk snapping and con\-tinued, \lquote In September of that year, a sub-committee of Sardinian sorcerers 
\endash \rquote 
\par He stuttered to a halt. Hermione\rquote s hand was waving in the air again.
\par \lquote Miss Grant?\rquote 
\par \lquote Please, sir, don\rquote t legends always have a basis in fact?\rquote 
\par Professor Binns was looking at her in such amazement, Harry was sure no student had ever interrupted him before, alive or dead.
\par \lquote Well,\rquote  said Professor Binns slowly, \lquote yes, one could argue that, I suppose.\rquote  He peered at Hermione as though he had never seen a student properly before. \lquote However, the legend of which you speak is such a very }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 sensational,}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  even }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 ludicrous}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  tale ...\rquote 
\par But the whole class was now hanging on Professor Binns\rquote s every word. He looked dimly at them all, every face turned to his. Harry could tell he was completely thrown by such an unusual show of interest.
\par \lquote Oh, very well,\rquote  he said slowly. \lquote Let me see ... the Chamber of Secrets ...
\par \lquote You all know, of course, that Hogwarts was founded over a thousand years ago \endash  the precise date is uncertain \endash 
 by the four greatest witches and wizards of the age. The four school houses are named after them: Godric Gryffindor, Helga Hufflepuff, Rowena Ravenclaw and Salazar Slytherin. They built this castle
 together, far from prying Muggle eyes, for it was an age when magic was feared by common people, and witches and wizards suffered much persecution.\rquote 
\par He paused, gazed blearily around the room, and continued, \lquote For a few years, the founders worked in harmony together, seek\-
ing out youngsters who showed signs of magic and bringing them to the castle to be educated. But then disagreements sprang up between them. A rift began to grow between Slytherin and the others. Slytherin wished to be more }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 
\ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 selective}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  about t
he students admitted to Hogwarts. He believed that magical learning should be kept within all-magic families. He disliked taking students of Muggle parentage, believing them to be untrustworthy. After a while, there was a serious argument on the subject b
etween Slytherin and Gryffindor, and Slytherin left the school.\rquote 
\par Professor Binns paused again, pursing his lips, looking like a wrinkled old tortoise.
\par \lquote Reliable historical sources tell us this much,\rquote  he said, \lquote but these honest facts have been obscured by th
e fanciful legend of the Chamber of Secrets. The story goes that Slytherin had built a hidden chamber in the castle, of which the other founders knew nothing.
\par \lquote 
Slytherin, according to the legend, sealed the Chamber of Secrets so that none would be able to open it until his own true heir arrived at the school. The heir alone would be able to unseal the Chamber of Secrets, unleash the horror within, and use it to 
purge the school of all who were unworthy to study magic.\rquote 
\par There was silence as he finished telling the story, but it wasn\rquote t the usual, sleepy silence that filled Professor Binns\rquote s classes. There was unease in the air as everyone continued to watch him, hop
ing for more. Professor Binns looked faintly annoyed.
\par \lquote The whole thing is arrant nonsense, of course,\rquote  he said. \lquote Naturally, the school has been searched for evidence of such a chamber, many times, by the most learned witches and wizards. It does not exist.
 A tale told to frighten the gullible.\rquote 
\par Hermione\rquote s hand was back in the air.
\par \lquote Sir \endash  what exactly do you mean by the \lquote horror within\rquote  the Chamber?\rquote 
\par \lquote That is believed to be some sort of monster, which the heir of Slytherin alone can control,\rquote  said Professor Binns in his dry, reedy voice.
\par The class exchanged nervous looks.
\par \lquote I tell you, the thing does not exist,\rquote  said Professor Binns, shuf\-fling his notes. \lquote There is no Chamber and no monster.\rquote 
\par \lquote But, sir,\rquote  said Seamus Finnigan, \lquote if the Chamber can only be opened by Slytherin\rquote s true heir, no one else }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 would}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 
\ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  be able to find it, would they?\rquote 
\par \lquote Nonsense, O\rquote Flaherty,\rquote  said Professor Binns in an aggravated tone. \lquote If a long succession of Hogwarts headmasters and head\-mistresses haven\rquote t found the thing \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote But, Professor,\rquote  piped up Parvati Patil, \lquote you\rquote d probably have to use Dark Magic to open it \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote Just because a wizard }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 doesn\rquote t}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  use Dark Magic, doesn\rquote 
t mean he }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 can\rquote t,}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Miss Pennyfeather,\rquote  snapped Professor Binns. 
\lquote I repeat, if the likes of Dumbledore \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote But maybe you\rquote ve got to be related to Slytherin, so Dumbledore couldn\rquote t \endash \rquote  began Dean Thomas, but Professor Binns had had enough.
\par \lquote That will do,\rquote  he said sharply. \lquote It is a myth! It does not exist! There is not a shred of evidence that Slytherin ever built so much as a secret br
oom cupboard! I regret telling you such a foolish story! We will return, if you please, to }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 history,}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  to solid, believable, verifiable }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 fact!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par And within five minutes, the class had sunk back into its usual torpor.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 *
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote I always knew Salazar Slytherin was a twisted old loony,\rquote 
 Ron told Harry and Hermione, as they fought their way through the teem\-ing corridors at the end of the lesson to drop off their bags before dinner. \lquote But I never knew he started all this pure-blood stuff. I wouldn\rquote t be in his house if you p
aid me. Honestly, if the Sorting Hat had tried to put me in Slytherin, I\rquote d\rquote ve got the train straight back home ...\rquote 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Hermione nodded fervently, but Harry didn\rquote 
t say anything. His stomach had just dropped unpleasantly.
\par Harry had never told Ron and Hermione that the Sorting Hat had seriously considered putting }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 him}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  in Slytherin. He could remember, as though it was yesterday, the small voice that had spoken in his ear when he\rquote d placed the Hat on his head a year before.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote You could be great, you know, it\rquote s all here in your head, and Slytherin would help you on the way to greatness, no doubt about that }{\rtlch\fcs1 
\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 ...\rquote 
\par But Harry, who had already heard of Slytherin house\rquote s reputa\-tion for turning out dark wizards, had thought desperately, \lquote Not Slytherin!\rquote  and the Hat had said, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Oh, well, if you\rquote re sure ... better be Gryffindor ...\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par As they were shunted along in the throng, Colin Creevey went past.
\par \lquote Hiya, Harry!\rquote 
\par \lquote Hullo, Colin,\rquote  said Harry automatically.
\par \lquote Harry \endash  Harry \endash  a boy in my class has been saying you\rquote re \endash \rquote 
\par But Colin was so small he couldn\rquote t fight against the tide of people bearing him towards the Great Hall; they heard him squeak, \lquote See you, Harry!\rquote  and he was gone.
\par \lquote What\rquote s a boy in his class saying about you?\rquote  Hermione won\-dered.
\par \lquote That I\rquote m Slytherin\rquote s heir, I expect,\rquote  said Harry, his stomach dropping another inch or so, as he suddenly remembered the way Justin Finch-Fletchley had run away from him at lunchtime.
\par \lquote People here\rquote ll believe anything,\rquote  said Ron in disgust.
\par The crowd thinned and they were able to climb the next stair\-case without difficulty.
\par \lquote D\rquote you }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 really}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  think there\rquote s a Chamber of Secrets?\rquote 
 Ron asked Hermione.
\par \lquote I don\rquote t know,\rquote  she said, frowning. \lquote Dumbledore couldn\rquote t cure Mrs Norris, and that makes me think that whatever attacked her might not be \endash  well \endash  human.\rquote 
\par As she spoke, they turned a corner and found themselves at the end of the very corridor where the attack had happened. They stopped and looked. The scene was just as it had been that night, except that there was no stiff cat hanging from the t
orch bracket, and an empty chair stood against the wall bearing the message \lquote The Chamber has been opened.\rquote 
\par \lquote That\rquote s where Filch has been keeping guard,\rquote  Ron muttered.
\par They looked at each other. The corridor was deserted.
\par \lquote Can\rquote t hurt to have a poke around,\rquote  said Harry, dropping his bag and getting to his hands and knees so that he could crawl along, searching for clues.
\par \lquote Scorch marks!\rquote  he said. \lquote Here \endash  and here \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote Come and look at this!\rquote  said Hermione. \lquote This is funny ...\rquote 
\par Harry got up and crossed to the wind
ow next to the message on the wall. Hermione was pointing at the topmost pane, where around twenty spiders were scuttling, apparently fighting to get through a small crack in the glass. A long, silvery thread was dangling like a rope, as though they had a
ll climbed it in their hurry to get outside.
\par \lquote Have you ever seen spiders act like that?\rquote  said Hermione won\-deringly.
\par \lquote No,\rquote  said Harry, \lquote have you, Ron? Ron?\rquote 
\par He looked over his shoulder. Ron was standing well back, and seemed to be fighting the impulse to run.
\par \lquote What\rquote s up?\rquote  said Harry.
\par \lquote I \endash  don\rquote t \endash  like \endash  spiders,\rquote  said Ron tensely.
\par \lquote I never knew that,\rquote  said Hermione, looking at Ron in surprise. \lquote You\rquote ve used spiders in potions loads of times ...\rquote 
\par \lquote I don\rquote t mind them dead,\rquote  said Ron, who was carefully looking anywhere but at the window, \lquote I just don\rquote t like the way they move ...\rquote 
\par Hermione giggled.
\par \lquote It\rquote s not funny,\rquote  said Ron, fiercely. \lquote If you must know, when I was three, Fred turned my \endash  my teddy bear into a dirty great spider because I broke his toy broomstick. You wouldn\rquote t like them either if you\rquote 
d been holding your bear and suddenly it had too many legs and ...\rquote 
\par He broke off, shuddering. Hermione was obviously still trying not to laugh. Feeling they had better get off the subject, Harry said, \lquote Remember all that water on the floor? Where did that come from? Someone\rquote s mopped it up.\rquote 
\par \lquote It was about here,\rquote  said Ron, recovering himself to walk a few paces past Filch\rquote s chair and pointing. \lquote Level with this door.\rquote 
\par He reached for the brass doorknob but suddenly withdrew his hand as though he\rquote d been burned.
\par \lquote What\rquote s the matter?\rquote  said Harry.
\par \lquote Can\rquote t go in there,\rquote  said Ron gruffly, \lquote that\rquote s a girls\rquote  toilet.\rquote 
\par \lquote Oh, Ron, there won\rquote t be anyone in there,\rquote  said Hermione, standing up and coming over. \lquote That\rquote s Moaning Myrtle\rquote s place. Come on, let\rquote s have a look.\rquote 
\par And ignoring the large \lquote Out of Order\rquote  sign, she opened the door.
\par It was the gloomiest, most depressing bathroom Harry had ever set foot in. Under a large, cracked and spotted mirror were a row of chipped, stone sinks. 
The floor was damp and reflected the dull light given off by the stubs of a few candles, burning low in their holders; the wooden doors to the cubicles were flaking and scratched and one of them was dangling off its hinges.
\par Hermione put her fingers to her lips and set off towards the end cubicle. When she reached it she said, \lquote Hello, Myrtle, how are you?\rquote 
\par Harry and Ron went to look. Moaning Myrtle was floating on the cistern of the toilet, picking a spot on her chin.
\par \lquote This is a }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 girls\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  bathroom,\rquote  she said, e
yeing Ron and Harry sus\-piciously. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote They\rquote re}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  not girls.\rquote 

\par \lquote No,\rquote  Hermione agreed. \lquote I just wanted to show them how \endash  er \endash  nice it is in here.\rquote 
\par She waved vaguely at the dirty old mirror and the damp floor.
\par \lquote Ask her if she saw anything,\rquote  Harry mouthed at Hermione.
\par \lquote What are you whispering?\rquote  said Myrtle, staring at him.
\par \lquote Nothing,\rquote  said Harry quickly. \lquote We wanted to ask \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote I wish people would stop talking behind my back!\rquote  said Myrtle, in a voice choked with tears. \lquote I }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 do}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  have feelings, you know, even if I }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 am}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  dead.\rquote 
\par \lquote Myrtle, no one wants to upset you,\rquote  said Hermione. \lquote Harry only \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote No one wants to upset me! That\rquote s a good one!\rquote  howled Myrtle. \lquote My life was nothing but misery at this place and now people come along ruining my death!\rquote 
\par \lquote We wanted to ask you if you\rquote d seen anything funny lately,\rquote  said Hermione quickly, \lquote because a cat was attacked right outside your front door on Hallowe\rquote en.\rquote 
\par \lquote Did you see anyone near here that night?\rquote  said Harry.
\par \lquote I wasn\rquote t paying attention,\rquote  said Myrtle dramatically. \lquote Peeves upset me so much I came in here and tried to }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 kill}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 
\ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  myself. Then, of course, I remembered that I\rquote m \endash  that I\rquote m \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote Already dead,\rquote  said Ron helpfully.
\par Myrtle gave a tragic sob, rose up in the air, turned over and dived head first into the toilet, splashing water all over them and vanishing from sight; from the direction of her muffled sobs, she had come to rest somewhere in the U-bend.
\par Harry and Ron stood with their mouths open, but Hermione shrugged wearily and said, \lquote Honestly, that was almost cheerful for Myrtle ... come on, let\rquote s go.\rquote 
\par Harry had barely closed the door on Myrtle\rquote s gurgling sobs when a loud voice made all three of them jump.
\par \lquote RON!\rquote 
\par Percy Weasley had stopped dead at the head of the stairs, pre\-fect badge agleam, an expression of complete shock on his face.
\par \lquote That\rquote s a }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 girls\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  bathroom!\rquote  he gasped. \lquote 
What were }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 you}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  \endash ?\rquote 
\par \lquote Just having a look around,\rquote  Ron shrugged. \lquote Clues, you know ...\rquote 
\par Percy swelled in a manner that reminded Harry forcefully of Mrs Weasley.
\par \lquote Get \endash  away \endash  from \endash  there \endash \rquote  he said, striding towards them and starting to chivvy them along, flapping his arms. \lquote Don\rquote t you }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 care}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  what this looks like? Coming back here while everyone\rquote s at dinner ...\rquote 
\par \lquote Why shouldn\rquote t we be here?\rquote  said Ron hotly, stopping short and glaring at Percy. \lquote Listen, we never laid a finger on that cat!\rquote 
\par \lquote That\rquote s what I told Ginny,\rquote  said Percy fiercely, \lquote but she still seems to think you\rquote re going to be expelled; I\rquote ve never seen her so upset, crying her eyes out. You might think of }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 her,}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  all the first-years are thoroughly over-excited by this business \endash \rquote 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote You}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  don\rquote t care about Ginny,\rquote 
 said Ron, whose ears were redden\-ing now. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote You\rquote re}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  just worried I
\rquote m going to mess up your chances of being Head Boy.\rquote 
\par \lquote Five points from Gryffindor!\rquote  Percy said tersely, fingering his prefect badge. \lquote And I hope it teaches you a lesson! No more }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 detec\-tive work,}{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  or I\rquote ll write to Mum!\rquote 
\par And he strode off, the back of his neck as red as Ron\rquote s ears.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 *
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
Harry, Ron and Hermione chose seats as far as possible from Percy in the common room that night. Ron was still in a very bad tem\-per and kept blotting his Charms homework. When he reached absently for his wand to remove the smudges, it ignited the parch
\-ment. Fuming almost as much as his homework, Ron slammed }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 The Standard Book of Spells, Grade 2}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  shut. To Harry\rquote s surprise, Hermione followed suit.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Who can it be, though?\rquote 
 she said in a quiet voice, as though continuing a conversation they had just been having. \lquote Who\rquote d }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 want}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  all the Squibs and Muggle-borns out of Hogwarts?\rquote 
\par \lquote Let\rquote s think,\rquote  said Ron in mock puzzlement. \lquote Who do we know who thinks Muggle-borns are scum?\rquote 
\par He looked at Hermione. Hermione looked back, unconvinced.
\par \lquote If you\rquote re talking about Malfoy \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote Of course I am!\rquote  said Ron. \lquote You heard him: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \'93You\rquote ll be next, Mudbloods!\'94}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Come on, you\rquote ve only got to look at his foul rat face to know it\rquote s him \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote Malfoy, the heir of Slytherin?\rquote  said Hermione sceptically.
\par \lquote Look at his family,\rquote  said Harry, closing his books, too. \lquote The whole lot of them have been in Slytherin, he\rquote s always boasting about it. They could easily be Slytherin\rquote s descendants. His father\rquote 
s definitely evil enough.\rquote 
\par \lquote They could\rquote ve had the key to the Chamber of Secrets for cen\-turies!\rquote  said Ron. \lquote Handing it down, father to son ...\rquote 
\par \lquote Well,\rquote  said Hermione cautiously, \lquote I suppose it\rquote s possible ...\rquote 
\par \lquote But how do we prove it?\rquote  said Harry darkly.
\par \lquote There might be a way,\rquote  said Hermione slowly, dropping her voice still further with a quick glance across the room at Percy. \lquote Of course, it would be difficult. And dangerous, very dangerous. We\rquote d be breaking about fifty school
 rules, I expect.\rquote 
\par \lquote If, in a month or so, you feel like explaining, you will let us know, won\rquote t you?\rquote  said Ron irritably.
\par \lquote All right,\rquote  said Hermione coldly. \lquote What we\rquote d need to do is to get inside the Slytherin common room and ask Malfoy a few ques\-tions without him realising it\rquote s us.\rquote 
\par \lquote But that\rquote s impossible,\rquote  Harry said, as Ron laughed.
\par \lquote No, it\rquote s not,\rquote  said Hermione. \lquote All we\rquote d need would be some Polyjuice Potion.\rquote 
\par \lquote What\rquote s that?\rquote  said Ron and Harry together.
\par \lquote Snape mentioned it in class a few weeks ago \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote D\rquote you think we\rquote ve got nothing better to do in Potions than lis\-ten to Snape?\rquote  muttered Ron.
\par \lquote It transforms you into somebody else. Think about it! We could change into three of the Slytherins. No one would know it was us. Malfoy would probably tell us anything. He\rquote 
s probably boasting about it in the Slytherin common room right now, if only we could hear him.\rquote 
\par \lquote This Polyjuice stuff sounds a bit dodgy to me,\rquote  said Ron, frowning. \lquote What if we were stuck looking like three of the Slytherins for ever?\rquote 
\par \lquote It wears off after a while,\rquote  said Hermione, waving her hand impatiently, \lquote but getting hold of the recipe will be very difficult. Snape said it was in a book called }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Moste Potente Potions}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  and it\rquote s bound to be in the Restricted Section of the library.\rquote 
\par There was only one way to get out a book from the Restricted Section: you needed a signed note of permission from a teacher.
\par \lquote Hard to see why we\rquote d want the book, really,\rquote  said Ron, \lquote if we weren\rquote t going to try and make one of the potions.\rquote 
\par \lquote I think,\rquote  said Hermione, \lquote that if we made it sound as though we were just interested in the theory, we might stand a chance ...\rquote 
\par \lquote Oh, come on, no teacher\rquote s going to fall for that,\rquote  said Ron. \lquote They\rquote d have to be really thick ...\rquote 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \page 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \emdash  CHAPTER TEN \emdash 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sa280\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs56 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs56\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 The Rogue Bludger
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sa280\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Since the d
isastrous episode of the pixies, Professor Lockhart had not brought live creatures to class. Instead, he read passages from his books to them, and sometimes re-enacted some of the more dramatic bits. He usually picked Harry to help him with these reconstr
uctions; so far, Harry had been forced to play a simple Transylvanian villager whom Lockhart had cured of a Babbling Curse, a yeti with a head-cold, and a vampire who had been unable to eat anything except lettuce since Lockhart had dealt with him.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Harry wa
s hauled to the front of the class during their very next Defence Against the Dark Arts lesson, this time acting a werewolf. If he hadn\rquote t had a very good reason for keeping Lockhart in a good mood, he would have refused to do it.
\par \lquote Nice loud howl, Harry \endash  exactly \endash  and then, if you\rquote ll believe it, I pounced \endash  like this \endash  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 slammed}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 
\ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  him to the floor \endash  thus \endash  with one hand, I managed to hold him down \endash  with my other, I put my wand to his throat \endash 
 I then screwed up my remaining strength and performed the immensely complex Homorphus Charm \endash  he let out a piteous moan \endash  go on, Harry \endash  higher than that \endash  good \endash  the fur vanished \endash  the fangs shrank \endash 
 and he turned back into a man. Simple, yet effective \endash  and another village will remember me forever as the hero who delivered them from the monthly terror of werewolf attacks.\rquote 
\par The bell rang and Lockhart got to his feet.
\par \lquote Homework: compose a poem about my defeat of the Wagga Wagga werewolf! Signed copies of }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Magical Me}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  to the author of the best one!\rquote 
\par The class began to leave. Harry returned to the back of the room, where Ron and Hermione were waiting.
\par \lquote Ready?\rquote  Harry muttered.
\par \lquote Wait till everyone\rquote s gone,\rquote  said Hermione nervously. \lquote All right ...\rquote 
\par She approached Lockhart\rquote s desk, a piece of paper clutched tightly in her hand, Harry and Ron right behind her.
\par \lquote Er \endash  Professor Lockhart?\rquote  Hermione stammered. \lquote I wanted to \endash  to get this book out of the library. Just for background reading.\rquote  She held out the piece of paper, her hand shaking slightly. \lquote 
But the thing is, it\rquote s in the Restricted Section of the library, so I need a teacher to sign for it \endash  I\rquote m sure it would help me understand what you say in }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Gadding with Ghouls}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  about slow-acting venoms ...\rquote 
\par \lquote Ah, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Gadding with Ghouls!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
 said Lockhart, taking the note from Hermione and smiling widely at her. \lquote Possibly my very favourite book. You enjoyed it?\rquote 
\par \lquote Oh, yes,\rquote  said Hermione eagerly. \lquote So clever, the way you trapped that last one with the tea-strainer ...\rquote 
\par \lquote Well, I\rquote m sure no one will mind me giving the best student in the year a little extra help,\rquote  said Lockhart warmly, and he pulled out an enormous peacock quill. \lquote Yes, nice, isn\rquote t it?\rquote  he said, mis\-
reading the revolted look on Ron\rquote s face. \lquote I usually save it for book-signings.\rquote 
\par He scrawled an enormous loopy signature on the note and handed it back to Hermione.
\par \lquote So, Harry,\rquote  said Lockhart, while Hermione folded the note with fumbling fingers and slipped it into her bag, \lquote tomorrow\rquote s the first Quidditch match of the season, I believe? Gryffindor against Slytherin, is it not? I hear you
\rquote re a useful player. I was a Seeker, too. I was asked to try for the National Squad, but preferred to dedicate my life to the eradication of the Dark Forces. Still, if ever you feel the need for a little private training, don\rquote 
t hesitate to ask. Always happy to pass on my expertise to less able players ...\rquote 
\par Harry made an indistinct noise in his throat and then hurried off after Ron and Hermione.
\par \lquote I don\rquote t believe it,\rquote  he said, as the three of them examined the signature on the note, \lquote He didn\rquote t even }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 look}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 
\ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  at the book we wanted.\rquote 
\par \lquote That\rquote s because he\rquote s a brainless git,\rquote  said Ron. \lquote But who cares, we\rquote ve got what we needed.\rquote 
\par \lquote He is }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 not}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  a brainless git,\rquote 
 said Hermione shrilly, as they half-ran towards the library.
\par \lquote Just because he said you were the best student in the year ...\rquote 
\par They dropped their voices as they entered the muffled stillness of the library. Madam Pince, the librarian, was a thin, irritable woman who looked like an underfed vulture.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Moste Potente Potions?\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
 she repeated suspiciously, trying to take the note from Hermione; but Hermione wouldn\rquote t let go.
\par \lquote I was wondering if I could keep it,\rquote  she said breathlessly.
\par \lquote Oh, come on,\rquote  said Ron, wrenching it from her grasp and thrusting it at Madam Pince. \lquote We\rquote ll get you another autograph. Lockhart\rquote ll sign anything if it stands still long enough.\rquote 
\par Madam Pince held the note up to the light, as though deter\-mined to detect a forgery, but it passed the test. She stalked away between the lofty shelves and returned several minutes later carry\-
ing a large and mouldy-looking book. Hermione put it carefully into her bag and they left, trying not to walk too quickly or look too guilty.
\par Five minutes later, they were barricaded in Moaning Myrtle\rquote s out-of-order bathroom once again. Hermione had overridden Ron\rquote 
s objections by pointing out that it was the last place anyone in their right minds would go, so they were guaranteed some pri\-vacy. Moaning Myrtle was crying noisily in her cubicle, but they were ignoring her, and she them.
\par Hermione opened }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Moste Potente Potions}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
 carefully, and the three of them bent over the damp-spotted pages. It was clear from a glance why it belonged in the Restricted Section. Some of the potions had effects almost too gruesome to think about, and there were s
ome very unpleasant illustrations, which included a man who seemed to have been turned inside out and a witch sprouting several extra pairs of arms out of her head.
\par \lquote Here it is,\rquote  said Hermione excitedly, as she found the page headed }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 The Polyjuice Potion.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  It was decorated with drawings of people halfway through transforming into other people. Harry sincerely hoped the artist had imagined the looks of intense pain on their faces.
\par \lquote This is the most complicated potion I\rquote ve ever seen,\rquote  said Hermione, as they scanned the recipe. \lquote Lacewing flies, leeches, fluxweed and knotgrass,\rquote  she murmured, running her finger down the list of ingredients. \lquote 
Well, they\rquote re easy enough, they\rquote re in the student store-cupboard, we can help ourselves. Oooh, look, powdered horn of a Bicorn \endash  don\rquote t know where we\rquote re going to get that ... Shredded skin of a Boomslang \endash  that
\rquote ll be tricky, too \endash  and of course a bit of whoever we want to change into.\rquote 
\par \lquote Excuse me?\rquote  said Ron sharply. \lquote What d\rquote you mean, a bit of whoever we\rquote re changing into? I\rquote m drinking }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 nothing}{\rtlch\fcs1 
\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  with Crabbe\rquote s toenails in it ...\rquote 
\par Hermione continued as though she hadn\rquote t heard him.
\par \lquote We don\rquote t have to worry about that yet, though, because we add those bits last ...\rquote 
\par Ron turned, speechless, to Harry, who had another worry.
\par \lquote D\rquote you realise how much we\rquote re going to have to steal, Hermione? Shredded skin of Boomslang, that\rquote s definitely not in the students\rquote  cupboard. What\rquote re we going to do, break into Snape\rquote s private stores? I don
\rquote t know if this is a good idea ...\rquote 
\par Hermione shut the book with a snap.
\par \lquote Well, if you two are going to chicken out, fine,\rquote  she said. There were bright pink patches on her cheeks and her eyes were brighter than usual. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\lquote I}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  don\rquote t want to break rules, you know. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 I}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 
\ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  think threatening Muggle-borns is far worse than brewing up a difficult potion. But if you don\rquote t want to find out if it\rquote s Malfoy, I\rquote 
ll go straight to Madam Pince now and hand the book back in ...\rquote 
\par \lquote I never thought I\rquote d see the day when you\rquote d be persuading us to break rules,\rquote  said Ron. \lquote All right, we\rquote ll do it. But not toenails, OK?\rquote 
\par \lquote How long will it take to make, anyway?\rquote  said Harry, as Hermione, looking happier, opened the book again.
\par \lquote Well, as the fluxweed has got to be picked at the full moon and the lacewings have got to be stewed for twenty-one days ... I\rquote d say it\rquote d be ready in about a month, if we can get all the ingredients.\rquote 
\par \lquote A month?\rquote  said Ron. \lquote Malfoy could have attacked half the Muggle-borns in the school by then!\rquote  But Hermione\rquote s eyes nar\-rowed dangerously again, and he added swiftly, \lquote But it\rquote s the best plan we\rquote 
ve got, so full steam ahead, I say.\rquote 
\par However, while Hermione was checking that the coast was clear for them to leave the bathroom, Ron muttered to Harry, \lquote It\rquote ll be a lot less hassle if you can just knock Malfoy off his broom tomorrow.\rquote 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 *
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Harry woke early on Saturday morning and lay for a while think\-
ing about the coming Quidditch match. He was nervous, mainly at the thought of what Wood would say if Gryffindor lost, but also at the idea of facing a team mounted on the fastest racing brooms gold could buy.
 He had never wanted to beat Slytherin so badly. After half an hour of lying there with his insides churning, he got up, dressed, and went down to breakfast early, where he found the rest of the Gryffindor team huddled at the long, empty table, all lookin
g uptight and not speaking much.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 As eleven o\rquote 
clock approached, the whole school started to make its way down to the Quidditch stadium. It was a muggy sort of day with a hint of thunder in the air. Ron and Hermione came hurrying over to wish Harry good luck 
as he entered the changing rooms. The team pulled on their scarlet Gryffindor robes, then sat down to listen to Wood\rquote s usual pre-match pep talk.
\par \lquote Slytherin have better brooms than us,\rquote  he began, \lquote no point denying it. But we\rquote ve got better }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 people}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  on our brooms. We\rquote ve trained harder than they have, we\rquote ve been flying in all weathers \endash \rquote  (\lquote Too true,\rquote  muttered George Weasley. \lquote I haven\rquote 
t been properly dry since August\rquote ) \lquote \endash  and we\rquote re going to make them rue the day they let that little bit of slime, Malfoy, buy his way onto their team.\rquote 
\par Chest heaving with emotion, Wood turned to Harry.
\par \lquote It\rquote ll be down to you, Harry, to show them that a Seeker has to have something more than a rich father. Get to that Snitch before Malfoy or die trying, Harry, because we\rquote ve got to win today, we\rquote ve got to.\rquote 
\par \lquote So no pressure, Harry,\rquote  said Fred, winking at him.
\par As they walked out onto the pitch, a roar of noise greeted them; mainly cheers, because Ravenclaw and Hufflepuff were anxious to see Slytherin beaten, but the Slytherins in the crowd 
made their boos and hisses heard too. Madam Hooch, the Quidditch teacher, asked Flint and Wood to shake hands, which they did, giving each other threatening stares and gripping rather harder than was necessary.
\par \lquote On my whistle,\rquote  said Madam Hooch, \lquote three ... two ... one ...\rquote 
\par With a roar from the crowd to speed them upwards, the four\-teen players rose towards the leaden sky. Harry flew higher than any of them, squinting around for the Snitch.
\par \lquote All right there, Scarhead?\rquote  yelled Malfoy, shooting underneath him as though to show off the speed of his broom.
\par Harry had no time to reply. At that very moment, a heavy black Bludger came pelting towards him; he avoided it so narrowly that he felt it ruffle his hair as it passed.
\par \lquote Close one, Harry!\rquote  said George, streakin
g past him with his club in his hand, ready to knock the Bludger back towards a Slytherin. Harry saw George give the Bludger a powerful whack in the direction of Adrian Pucey, but the Bludger changed direction in mid-air and shot straight for Harry again.

\par Harry dropped quickly to avoid it, and George managed to hit it hard towards Malfoy. Once again, the Bludger swerved like a boomerang and shot at Harry\rquote s head.
\par Harry put on a burst of speed and zoomed towards the other end of the pitch. He could hear the B
ludger whistling along behind him. What was going on? Bludgers never concentrated on one player like this, it was their job to try and unseat as many people as possible ...
\par Fred Weasley was waiting for the Bludger at the other end. Harry ducked as Fred swung at the Bludger with all his might; the Bludger was knocked off course.
\par \lquote That\rquote s done it!\rquote  Fred yelled happily, but he was wrong; as though it was magnetically attracted towards Harry, the Bludger pelted after him once more and Harry was forced to fly off at full speed.
\par It had started to rain; Harry felt heavy drops fall onto his face, splattering onto his glasses. He didn\rquote t have a clue what was going on in the rest of the game until he heard Lee Jordan, who was commentating, say, \lquote Slytherin lead, sixty po
ints to zero.\rquote 
\par The Slytherins\rquote  superior brooms were clearly doing their jobs, and meanwhile the mad Bludger was doing all it could to knock Harry out of the air. Fred and George were now flying so close to him on either side that Harry could see nothing at
 all except their flailing arms and had no chance to look for the Snitch, let alone catch it.
\par \lquote Someone\rquote s \endash  tampered \endash  with \endash  this \endash  Bludger \endash \rquote  Fred grunted, swinging his bat with all his might at it as it launched a new attack on Harry.
\par \lquote We need time out,\rquote  said George, trying to signal to Wood and stop the Bludger breaking Harry\rquote s nose at the same time.
\par Wood had obviously got the message. Madam Hooch\rquote s whistle rang out and Harry, Fred and George dived for the ground, still trying to avoid the mad Bludger.
\par \lquote What\rquote s going on?\rquote  said Wood, as the Gryffindor team huddled together, while Slytherins in the crowd jeered. \lquote We\rquote re being flat\-tened. Fred, George, where were you when that Bludger stopped Angelina scoring?\rquote 

\par \lquote We were twenty feet above her, stopping the other Bludger murdering Harry, Oliver,\rquote  said George angrily. \lquote Someone\rquote s fixed it \endash  it won\rquote t leave Harry alone, it hasn\rquote 
t gone for anyone else all game. The Slytherins must have done something to it.\rquote 
\par \lquote But the Bludgers have been locked in Madam Hooch\rquote s office since our last practice, and there was nothing wrong with them then ...\rquote  said Wood, anxiously.
\par Madam Hooch was walking towards them. Over her shoulder, Harry could see the Slytherin team jeering and pointing in his direction.
\par \lquote Listen,\rquote  said Harry, as she came nearer and nearer, \lquote with you two flying round me all the time the only way I\rquote 
m going to catch the Snitch is if it flies up my sleeve. Go back to the rest of the team and let me deal with the rogue one.\rquote 
\par \lquote Don\rquote t be thick,\rquote  said Fred. \lquote It\rquote ll take your head off.\rquote 
\par Wood was looking from Harry to the Weasleys.
\par \lquote Oliver, this is mad,\rquote  said Alicia Spinnet angrily. \lquote You can\rquote t let Harry deal with that thing on his own. Let\rquote s ask for an inquiry \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote If we stop now, we\rquote ll have to forfeit the match!\rquote  said Harry. \lquote And we\rquote re not losing to Slytherin just because of a mad Bludger! Come on, Oliver, tell them to leave me alone!\rquote 
\par \lquote This is all your fault,\rquote  George said angrily to Wood. \lquote  \'93Get the Snitch or die trying\'94 \endash  what a stupid thing to tell him!\rquote 
\par Madam Hooch had joined them.
\par \lquote Ready to resume play?\rquote  she asked Wood.
\par Wood looked at the determined look on Harry\rquote s face.
\par \lquote All right,\rquote  he said. \lquote Fred, George, you heard Harry \endash  leave him alone and let him deal with the Bludger on his own.\rquote 
\par The rain was falling more heavily now. On Madam Hooch\rquote 
s whistle, Harry kicked hard into the air and heard the tell-tale whoosh of the Bludger behind him. Higher and higher Harry climbed. He looped and swooped, spiralled, zig-zagged and rolled. Slightly dizzy, he nevertheless kept his eyes wide open
. Rain was speckling his glasses and ran up his nostrils as he hung upside down, avoiding another fierce dive from the Bludger. He could hear laughter from the crowd; he knew he must look very stupid, but the rogue Bludger was heavy and couldn\rquote 
t change direction as quickly as he could. He began a kind of roller-coaster ride around the edges of the stadium, squinting through the silver sheets of rain to the Gryffindor goalposts, where Adrian Pucey was trying to get past Wood ...
\par A whistling in Harry\rquote s ear told him the Bludger had just missed him again; he turned right over and sped in the opposite direc\-tion.
\par \lquote Training for the ballet, Potter?\rquote  yelled Malfoy, as Harry was forced to do a stupid kind of twirl in mid-air to dodge the Bludger. Off Harry fled, the 
Bludger trailing a few feet behind him: and then, glaring back at Malfoy in hatred, he saw it, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 the Golden Snitch.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  It was hovering inches above Malfoy\rquote s left ear \endash  and Malfoy, busy laughing at Harry, hadn\rquote t seen it.
\par For an agonising moment, Harry hung in mid-air, not daring to speed towards Malfoy in case he looked up and saw the Snitch.
\par WHAM!
\par He had stayed still a second too long. The Bludger had hit him at last, smashed into his elbow, and Harry felt his arm break. Dimly, dazed by the searing pain in his a
rm, he slid sideways on his rain-drenched broom, one knee still crooked over it, his right arm dangling useless at his side. The Bludger came pelting back for a second attack, this time aiming at his face. Harry swerved out of the way, one idea firmly lod
ged in his numb brain: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 get to Malfoy.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par Through a haze of rain and pain he dived for the shimmering, sneering face below him and saw its eyes widen with fear: Malfoy thought Harry was attacking him.
\par \lquote What the \endash \rquote  he gasped, careering out of Harry\rquote s way.
\par Harry 
took his remaining hand off his broom and made a wild snatch; he felt his fingers close on the cold Snitch but was now only gripping the broom with his legs and there was a yell from the crowd below as he headed straight for the ground, trying hard not to
 pass out.
\par With a splattering thud he hit the mud and rolled off his broom. His arm was hanging at a very strange angle. Riddled with pain, he heard, as though from a distance, a good deal of whistling and shouting. He focused on the Snitch clutched in his 
good hand.
\par \lquote Aha,\rquote  he said vaguely, \lquote we\rquote ve won.\rquote 
\par And he fainted.
\par He came round, rain falling on his face, still lying on the pitch, with someone leaning over him. He saw a glitter of teeth.
\par \lquote Oh no, not you,\rquote  he moaned.
\par \lquote Doesn\rquote t know what he\rquote s saying,\rquote  said Lockhart loudly, to the anxious crowd of Gryffindors pressing around them. \lquote Not to worry, Harry. I\rquote m about to fix your arm.\rquote 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote No!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  said Harry. \lquote I\rquote ll keep it like this, thanks ...
\rquote 
\par He tried to sit up, but the pain was terrible. He heard a familiar clicking noise nearby.
\par \lquote I don\rquote t want a photo of this, Colin,\rquote  he said loudly.
\par \lquote Lie back, Harry,\rquote  said Lockhart soothingly. \lquote It\rquote s a simple charm I\rquote ve used countless times.\rquote 
\par \lquote Why can\rquote t I just go to the hospital wing?\rquote  said Harry through clenched teeth.
\par \lquote He should really, Professor,\rquote  said a muddy Wood, who couldn\rquote t help grinning even though his Seeker was injured. \lquote Great capture, Harry, really spectacular, your best yet, I\rquote d say.\rquote 
\par Through the thicket of legs around him, Harry spotted Fred and George Weasley, wrestling the rogue Bludger into a box. It was still putting up a terrific fight.
\par \lquote Stand back,\rquote  said Lockhart, who was rolling up his jade-green sleeves.
\par \lquote No \endash  don\rquote t \endash \rquote  said Harry weakly, but Lockhart was twirling his wand and a second later had directed it straight at Harry\rquote s arm.
\par A strange and unpleasant sensation started at Harry\rquote s shoulder and spread all the way down to his fingertips. It felt as though his arm was being deflated. He didn\rquote t dare look at what was happen\-ing. He had shut his eyes, his face tu
rned away from his arm, but his worst fears were realised as the people above him gasped and Colin Creevey began clicking away madly. His arm didn\rquote t hurt any more \endash  but nor did it feel remotely like an arm.
\par \lquote Ah,\rquote  said Lockhart. \lquote Yes. Well, that can sometimes happen. But the point is, the bones are no longer broken. That\rquote s the thing to bear in mind. So, Harry, just toddle up to the Hospital Wing \endash 
 ah, Mr Weasley, Miss Granger, would you escort him? \endash  and Madam Pomfrey will be able to \endash  er \endash  tidy you up a bit.\rquote 
\par As Harry got to his feet, he felt strangely lopsided. Taking a deep breath he looked down at his right side. What he saw nearly made him pass out again.
\par Poking out of the end of his robes was what looked like a thick, flesh-coloured rubber glove. He tried to move his fingers. Nothing happened.
\par Lockhart hadn\rquote t mended Harry\rquote s bones. He had removed them.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 *
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Madam Pomfrey wasn\rquote t at all pleased.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote You should have come straight to me!\rquote 
 she raged, holding up the sad, limp remainder of what, half an hour before, had been a working arm. \lquote I can mend bones in a second \endash  but growing them back \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote You will be able to, won\rquote t you?\rquote  said Harry desperately.
\par \lquote I\rquote ll be able to, certainly, but it will be painful,\rquote  said Madam Pomfrey grimly, throwing Harry a pair of pyjamas. \lquote You\rquote ll have to stay the night ...\rquote 
\par Hermione waited outside the curtain drawn around Harry\rquote s bed while Ron helped him into his pyjamas. It took a while to stuff the rubbery, boneless arm into a sleeve.
\par \lquote How can you stick up for Lockhart now, Hermione, eh?\rquote  Ron called through the curtain as he pulled Harry\rquote s limp fingers through the cuff. \lquote If Harry had wanted de-boning he would have asked.\rquote 
\par \lquote Anyone can make a mistake,\rquote  said Hermione, \lquote And it doesn\rquote t hurt any more, does it, Harry?\rquote 
\par \lquote No,\rquote  said Harry, \lquote but it doesn\rquote t do anything else, either.\rquote 
\par As he swung himself onto the bed, his arm flapped pointlessly.
\par Hermione and Madam Pomfrey came around the curtain. Madam Pomfrey was holding a large bottle of something labelled \lquote Skele-Gro\rquote .
\par \lquote You\rquote re in for a rough night,\rquote  she said, pouring out a steaming beakerful and handing it to him. \lquote Regrowing bones is a nasty business.\rquote 
\par So was taking the Skele-Gro. It burned Harry\rquote s mouth and throat as it went down, making him cough and splutter. Still tut-tutting about dangerous spor
ts and inept teachers, Madam Pomfrey retreated, leaving Ron and Hermione to help Harry gulp down some water.
\par \lquote We won, though,\rquote  said Ron, a grin breaking across his face. \lquote That was some catch you made. Malfoy\rquote s face ... he looked ready to kill!\rquote 
\par \lquote I want to know how he fixed that Bludger,\rquote  said Hermione darkly.
\par \lquote We can add that to the list of questions we\rquote ll ask him when we\rquote ve taken the Polyjuice Potion,\rquote  said Harry, sinking back onto his pillows. \lquote I hope it tastes better than this stuff ...\rquote 
\par \lquote If it\rquote s got bits of Slytherins in it? You\rquote ve got to be joking,\rquote  said Ron.
\par The door of the hospital wing burst open at that moment. Filthy and soaking wet, the rest of the Gryffindor team had arrived to see Harry.
\par \lquote Unbelievable flying, Harry,\rquote  said George. \lquote I\rquote ve just seen Marcus Flint yelling at Malfoy. Something about having the Snitch on top of his head and not noticing. Malfoy didn\rquote t seem too happy.\rquote 
\par They had brought cakes, sweets and bottles of pumpkin juice; they gathered around Harry\rquote s bed and were just getting started on what promised to be a good party when Madam Pomfrey came storming over, shouting, \lquote This boy needs rest, he\rquote 
s got thirty-three bones to regrow! Out! OUT!\rquote 
\par And Harry was left alone, with nothing to distract him from the stabbing pains in his limp arm.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 *
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
Hours and hours later, Harry woke quite suddenly in the pitch blackness and gave a small yelp of pain: his arm now felt full of large splinters. For a second, he thought it was that which had woken him. Then, with a thrill of horror, he realised that som
eone was sponging his forehead in the dark.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Get off!\rquote  he said loudly, and then, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Dobby!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par The house-elf\rquote s goggling tennis-ball eyes were peering at Harry through the darkness. A single tear was running down his long, pointed nose.
\par \lquote Harry Potter came back to school,\rquote  he whispered miserably. \lquote Dobby warned and warned Harry Potter. Ah sir, why didn\rquote t you heed Dobby? Why didn\rquote t Harry Potter go back home when he missed the train?\rquote 
\par Harry heaved himself up on his pillows and pushed Dobby\rquote s sponge away.
\par \lquote What\rquote re you doing here?\rquote  he said. \lquote And how did you know I missed the train?\rquote 
\par Dobby\rquote s lip trembled and Harry was seized by a sudden suspi\-cion.
\par \lquote It was }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 you!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  he said slowly. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote You}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  stopped the barrier letting us through!\rquote 
\par \lquote Indeed yes, sir,\rquote  said Dobby, nodding his head vigorously, ears flapping. \lquote Dobby hid and watched for Harry Potter and sealed the gateway and Dobby had to iron his hands afterwards \endash \rquote 
 he showed Harry ten, long, bandaged fingers, \lquote \endash  but Dobby didn\rquote t care, sir, for he thought Harry Potter was safe, and }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 never}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 
\ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  did Dobby dream that Harry Potter would get to school another way!\rquote 
\par He was rocking backwards and forwards, shaking his ugly head.
\par \lquote Dobby was so shocked when he heard Harry Potter was back at Hogwarts, he let his master\rquote s dinner burn! Such a flogging Dobby never had, sir ...\rquote 
\par Harry slumped back onto his pillows.
\par \lquote You nearly got Ron and me expelled,\rquote  he said fiercely. \lquote You\rquote d better clear off before my bones come back, Dobby, or I might strangle you.\rquote 
\par Dobby smiled weakly.
\par \lquote Dobby is used to death threats, sir. Dobby gets them five times a day at home.\rquote 
\par He blew his nose on a corner of the filthy pillowcase he wore, looking so pathetic that Harry felt his anger ebb away in spite of himself.
\par \lquote Why d\rquote you wear that thing, Dobby?\rquote  he asked curiously.
\par \lquote This, sir?\rquote  said Dobby, plucking at the pillowcase. \lquote  \rquote Tis a mark of the house-elf\rquote 
s enslavement, sir. Dobby can only be freed if his masters present him with clothes, sir. The family is careful not to pass Dobby even a sock, sir, for then he would be free to leave their house for ever.\rquote 
\par Dobby mopped his bulging eyes and said suddenly, \lquote Harry Potter }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 must}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
 go home! Dobby thought his Bludger would be enough to make \endash \rquote 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Your}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Bludger?\rquote  said Harry, anger rising once more. \lquote What d
\rquote you mean, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 your}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Bludger? }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 You}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  made that Bludger try and kill me?\rquote 
\par \lquote Not kill you, sir, never kill you!\rquote  said Dobby, shocked. \lquote Dobby wants to save Harry Potter\rquote s life! Better sent home, grievously injured, than remain here, sir! Dobby only wanted Harry Potter hurt enough to be sent home!
\rquote 
\par \lquote Oh, is that all?\rquote  said Harry angrily. \lquote I don\rquote t suppose you\rquote re going to tell me }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 why}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  you wanted me sent home in pieces?\rquote 
\par \lquote Ah, if Harry Potter only knew!\rquote  Dobby groaned, more tears dripping onto his ragged pillowcase. \lquote If he knew what he mea
ns to us, to the lowly, the enslaved, us dregs of the magical world! Dobby remembers how it was when He Who Must Not Be Named was at the height of his powers, sir! We house-elves were treated like vermin, sir! Of course, Dobby is still treated like that, 
sir,\rquote  he admitted, drying his face on the pillowcase. \lquote But mostly, sir, life has improved for my kind since you triumphed over He Who Must Not Be Named. Harry Potter survived, and the Dark Lord\rquote 
s power was broken, and it was a new dawn, sir, and Harry Potte
r shone like a beacon of hope for those of us who thought the dark days would never end, sir ... And now, at Hogwarts, terrible things are to happen, are perhaps happening already, and Dobby cannot let Harry Potter stay here now that history is to repeat 
itself, now that the Chamber of Secrets is open once more \endash \rquote 
\par Dobby froze, horror-struck, then grabbed Harry\rquote s water jug from his bedside table and cracked it over his own head, toppling out of sight. A second later, he crawled back onto the bed, cross-eyed, muttering, \lquote Bad Dobby, very bad Dobby ...
\rquote 
\par \lquote So there }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 is}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  a Chamber of Secrets?\rquote  Harry whispered. And \endash 
 did you say it\rquote s been opened }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 before?}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Tell}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  me, Dobby!\rquote 
\par He seized the elf\rquote s bony wrist as Dobby\rquote s hand inched towards the water jug. \lquote But I\rquote m not Muggle-born \endash  how can I be in danger from the Chamber?\rquote 
\par \lquote Ah, sir, ask no more, ask no more of poor Dobby,\rquote  stammered the elf, his eyes huge in the dark. \lquote Dark deeds are planned in this place, but Harry Potter must not be here when they happen. Go home, Harry Potter
. Go home. Harry Potter must not meddle in this, sir, \rquote tis too dangerous \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote Who is it, Dobby?\rquote  Harry said, keeping a firm hold on Dobby\rquote s wrist to stop him hitting himself with the water jug again. \lquote Who\rquote s opened it? Who opened it last time?\rquote 
\par \lquote Dobby can\rquote t, sir, Dobby can\rquote t, Dobby mustn\rquote t tell!\rquote  squealed the elf. \lquote Go home, Harry Potter, go home!\rquote 
\par \lquote I\rquote m not going anywhere!\rquote  said Harry fiercely. \lquote One of my best friends is Muggle-born, she\rquote ll be first in line if the Chamber really has been opened \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote Harry Potter risks his own life for his friends!\rquote  moaned Dobby, in a kind of miserable ecstasy. \lquote So noble! So valiant! But he must save himself, he must, Harry Potter must not \endash \rquote 
\par Dobby suddenly froze, his bat ears quivering. Harry heard it, too. There were footsteps coming down the passageway outside.
\par \lquote Dobby must go!\rquote  breathed the elf, terrified; there was a loud crack, and Harry\rquote s fist was suddenly clenched on thin air. He slumped back into bed, his eyes on the dark doorway to the hos\-pital wing as the footsteps drew nearer.

\par Next moment, Dumbledore was backing into the dormitory, wearing a long woolly dressing gown and a nightcap. He was carrying one end of what looked like a statue. Professor McGonagall appeared a second later, carrying its feet. Together, they heave
d it onto a bed.
\par \lquote Get Madam Pomfrey,\rquote  whispered Dumbledore, and Professor McGonagall hurried past the end of Harry\rquote 
s bed out of sight. Harry lay quite still, pretending to be asleep. He heard urgent voices, and then Professor McGonagall swept back into vie
w, closely followed by Madam Pomfrey, who was pulling a cardigan on over her nightdress. He heard a sharp intake of breath.
\par \lquote What happened?\rquote  Madam Pomfrey whispered to Dumbledore, bending over the statue on the bed.
\par \lquote Another attack,\rquote  said Dumbledore. \lquote Minerva found him on the stairs.\rquote 
\par \lquote There was a bunch of grapes next to him,\rquote  said Professor McGonagall. \lquote We think he was trying to sneak up here to visit Potter.\rquote 
\par Harry\rquote s stomach gave a horrible lurch. Slowly and carefully, he raised himself a few inches so he could look at the statue on the bed. A ray of moonlight lay across its staring face.
\par It was Colin Creevey. His eyes were wide and his hands were stuck up in front of him, holding his camera.
\par \lquote Petrified?\rquote  whispered Madam Pomfrey.
\par \lquote Yes,\rquote  said Professor McGonagall. \lquote But I shudder to think ... If Albus hadn\rquote t been on the way downstairs for hot chocolate, who knows what might have ...\rquote 
\par The three of them stared down at Colin. Then Dumbledore leaned forward and prised the camera out of Colin\rquote s rigid grip.
\par \lquote You don\rquote t think he managed to get a picture of his attacker?\rquote  said Professor McGonagall eagerly.
\par Dumbledore didn\rquote t answer. He prised open the back of the camera.
\par \lquote Good gracious!\rquote  said Madam Pomfrey.
\par A jet of steam had hissed out of the camera. Harry, three beds away, caught the acrid smell of burnt plastic.
\par \lquote Melted,\rquote  said Madam Pomfrey wonderingly, \lquote all melted ...\rquote 
\par \lquote What does this }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 mean,}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Albus?\rquote  Professor McGonagall asked urgently.

\par \lquote It means,\rquote  said Dumbledore, \lquote that the Chamber of Secrets is indeed open again.\rquote 
\par Madam Pomfrey clapped a hand to her mouth. Professor McGonagall stared at Dumbledore.
\par \lquote But Albus ... surely ... }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 who?\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par \lquote The question is not }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 who,\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  said Dumbledore, his eyes on Colin. 
\lquote The question is, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 how ...\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par And from what Harry could see of Professor McGonagall\rquote s shadowy face, she didn\rquote t understand this any better than he did.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \page 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \emdash  CHAPTER ELEVEN \emdash 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sa280\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs56 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs56\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 The Duelling Club
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sa280\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Harry woke up on Sunday morning to find the dormitory blazing with winter sunlight and his ar
m re-boned but very stiff. He sat up quickly and looked over at Colin\rquote 
s bed, but it had been blocked from view by the high curtains Harry had changed behind yesterday. Seeing that he was awake, Madam Pomfrey came bustling over with a breakfast tray and then began bending and stretching his arm and fingers.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote All in order,\rquote  she said, as he clumsily fed himself porridge left-handed. 
\lquote When you\rquote ve finished eating, you may leave.\rquote 
\par Harry dressed as quickly as he could and hurried off to Gryffindor Tower, desperate to tell Ron and Hermione about Colin and Dobby, but they weren\rquote 
t there. Harry left to look for them, wondering where they could have got to and feeling slightly hurt that they weren\rquote t interested in whether he had his bones back or not.
\par As Harry passed the library, Percy Weasley strolled out of it, looking in far better spirits than last time they\rquote d met.
\par \lquote Oh, hello, Harry,\rquote  he said. \lquote Excellent flying yesterday, really excellent. Gryffindor have just taken the lead for the House Cup \endash  you earned fifty points!\rquote 
\par \lquote You haven\rquote t seen Ron or Hermione, have you?\rquote  said Harry.
\par \lquote No, I haven\rquote t,\rquote  said Percy, his smile fading. \lquote I hope Ron\rquote s not in another }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 girls\rquote  toilet }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 ...\rquote 
\par Harry forced a laugh, watched Percy out of sight and then headed straight for Moaning Myrtle\rquote s bathroom. He couldn\rquote 
t see why Ron and Hermione would be in there again, but after making sure that neither Filch nor any Prefects were around, he opened the door and heard their voices coming from a locked cubicle.
\par \lquote It\rquote s me,\rquote  he said, closing the door behind him. There was a clunk, a splash and a gasp from within the cubicle and he saw Hermione\rquote s eye peering through the keyhole.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Harry!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  she said. \lquote You gave us such a fright. Come in 
\endash  how\rquote s your arm?\rquote 
\par \lquote Fine,\rquote  said Harry, squeezing into the cubicle. An old cauldron was perched on the toilet, and a crackling from under the rim told Harry they had lit a fire beneath it. Conjuring up portable, water-proof fires was a speciality of Hermione
\rquote s.
\par \lquote We\rquote d\rquote ve come to meet you, but we decided to get started on the Polyjuice Potion,\rquote  Ron explained, as Harry, with difficulty, locked the cubicle again. \lquote We\rquote ve decided this is the safest place to hide it.\rquote 

\par Harry started to tell them about Colin, but Hermione interrupt\-ed. \lquote We already know, we heard Professor McGonagall telling Professor Flitwick this morning. That\rquote s why we decided we\rquote d better get going \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote The sooner we get a confession out of Malfoy, the better,\rquote  snarled Ron. \lquote D\rquote you know what I think? He was in such a foul temper after the Quidditch match, he took it out on Colin.\rquote 
\par \lquote There\rquote s something else,\rquote  said Harry, watching Hermione tearing bundles of knotgrass and throwing them into the potion. \lquote Dobby came to visit me in the middle of the night.\rquote 
\par Ron and Hermione looked up, amazed. Harry told them every\-thing Dobby had told him \endash  or hadn\rquote t told him. Ron and Hermione listened with their mouths open.
\par \lquote The Chamber of Secrets has been opened }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 before?\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  said Hermione.

\par \lquote This settles it,\rquote  said Ron in a triumphant voice. \lquote Lucius Malfoy must\rquote ve opened the Chamber when he was at school here and now he\rquote s told dear old Draco how to do it. It\rquote s obvious. Wish Dobby\rquote 
d told you what kind of monster\rquote s in there, though. I want to know how come nobody\rquote s noticed it sneaking round the school.\rquote 
\par \lquote Maybe it can make itself invisible,\rquote  said Hermione, prodding leeches to the bottom of the cauldron. \lquote Or maybe it can disguise itself \endash  pretend to be a suit of armour or something. I\rquote ve read about Chameleon Ghouls ...
\rquote 
\par \lquote You read too much, Hermione,\rquote  said Ron, pouring dead lacewings on top of the leeches. He crumpled up the empty lacewing bag and looked round at Harry.
\par \lquote So Dobby stopped us getting on the train and broke your arm ...\rquote  He shook his head. \lquote You know what, Harry? If he doesn\rquote t stop trying to save your life he\rquote s going to kill you.\rquote 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 *
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Th
e news that Colin Creevey had been attacked and was now lying as though dead in the hospital wing had spread through the entire school by Monday morning. The air was suddenly thick with rumour and suspicion. The first-years were now moving around the cast
le in tight-knit groups, as though scared they would be attacked if they ventured forth alone.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
Ginny Weasley, who sat next to Colin Creevey in Charms, was distraught, but Harry felt that Fred and George were going the wrong way about cheering her up. They w
ere taking it in turns to cover themselves with fur or boils and jump out at her from behind statues. They only stopped when Percy, apoplectic with rage, told them he was going to write to Mrs Weasley and tell her Ginny was having nightmares.
\par Meanwhile, hidden from the teachers, a roaring trade in talis\-
mans, amulets and other protective devices was sweeping the school. Neville Longbottom bought a large, evil-smelling green onion, a pointed purple crystal and a rotting newt-tail before the other Gryffindor 
boys pointed out that he was in no danger: he was a pure-blood, and therefore unlikely to be attacked.
\par \lquote They went for Filch first,\rquote  Neville said, his round face fearful, \lquote and everyone knows I\rquote m almost a Squib.\rquote 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 *
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 In the second week of December Professor Mc
Gonagall came around as usual, collecting names of those who would be staying at school for Christmas. Harry, Ron and Hermione signed her list; they had heard that Malfoy was staying, which struck them as very suspicious. The holidays would be the perfect
 time to use the Polyjuice Potion and try to worm a confession out of him.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
Unfortunately, the potion was only half-finished. They still needed the Bicorn horn and the Boomslang skin, and the only place they were going to get them was from Snape\rquote s private stores. Harry privately felt he\rquote d rather face Slytherin
\rquote s legendary monster than have Snape catch him robbing his office.
\par \lquote What we need,\rquote  said Hermione briskly, as Thursday afternoon\rquote s double Potions lesson loomed nearer, \lquote is a diversion. Then one of us can sneak into Snape\rquote s office and take what we need.\rquote 
\par Harry and Ron looked at her nervously.
\par \lquote I think I\rquote d better do the actual stealing,\rquote  Hermione continued, in a matter-of-fact tone. \lquote You two will be expelled if you get in any more trouble, and I\rquote 
ve got a clean record. So all you need to do is cause enough mayhem to keep Snape busy for five minutes or so.\rquote 
\par Harry smiled feebly. Deliberately causing mayhem in Snape\rquote s Potions class was about as safe as poking a sleeping dragon in the eye.
\par Potions lessons took place in one of the large dungeons. Thursday afternoon\rquote 
s lesson proceeded in the usual way. Twenty cauldrons stood steaming between the wooden desks, on which stood brass scales and jars of ingredients. Snape prowled through the fumes, making waspish remarks about the Gryffindors\rquote 
 work while the Slytherins sniggered appreciatively. Draco Malfoy, who was Snape\rquote s favourite student, kept flicking puffer-fish eyes at Ron and Harry, who knew that if they retaliated they would get deten\-tion faster than you could say \lquote 
unfair\rquote .
\par Harry\rquote s Swelling Solution was far too runny, but he had his mind on more important things. He was waiting for Hermione\rquote s signal, and he hardly listened as Snape paused to sneer at his watery potion. When Snape turned and walked off 
to bully Neville, Hermione caught Harry\rquote s eye and nodded.
\par Harry ducked swiftly down behind his cauldron, pulled one of Fred\rquote s Filibuster fireworks out of his pocket and gave it a quick prod with his wand. The firework began to fizz and sputter. Knowing he 
had only seconds, Harry straightened up, took aim, and lobbed it into the air; it landed right on target in Goyle\rquote s caul\-dron.
\par Goyle\rquote s potion exploded, showering the whole class. People shrieked as splashes of the Swelling Solution hit them. Malfoy got a faceful and his nose began to swell like a balloon; Goyle blun\-
dered around, his hands over his eyes, which had expanded to the size of dinner plates, while Snape was trying to restore calm and find out what had happened. Through the confusion, Harry saw Hermione slip quietly out of the door.
\par \lquote Silence! SILENCE!\rquote  Snape roared. \lquote Anyone who has been splashed, come here for a Deflating Draught. When I find out who did this ...\rquote 
\par Harry tried not to laugh as he watched Malfoy hurry forward, his head drooping with the weight of a nose like a small melon. As half the class lumbered up to Snape\rquote 
s desk, some weighed down with arms like clubs, others unable to talk through gigantic puffed-up lips, Harry saw Hermione slide back into the dungeon, the front of her robes bulging.
\par When everyone had taken a swig of antidote and the various swellings had subsided, Snape swept over to Goyle\rquote s cauldron and scooped out the twisted black remains of the firework. There was a sudden hush.
\par \lquote If I ever find out who threw this,\rquote  Snape whispered, \lquote I shall }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 make sure}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  that person is expelled.\rquote 
\par Harry arranged his face into what he hoped was a puzzled expression. Snape was looking right at him, and the bell which rang ten minutes later could not have been more welcome.
\par \lquote He knew it was me,\rquote  Harry told Ron and Hermione, as they hurried back to Moaning Myrtle\rquote s bathroom. \lquote I could tell.\rquote 
\par Hermione threw the new ingredients into the cauldron and began to stir feverishly.
\par \lquote It\rquote ll be ready in a fortnight,\rquote  she said happily.
\par \lquote Snape can\rquote t prove it was you,\rquote  said Ron reassuringly to Harry. \lquote What can he do?\rquote 
\par \lquote Knowing Snape, something foul,\rquote  said Harry, as the potion frothed and bubbled.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 *
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
A week later, Harry, Ron and Hermione were walking across the Entrance Hall when they saw a small knot of people gathered around the noticeboard, reading a piece of parchment that had just been pinned up. Seamus Finnigan and Dean Thomas beck\-
oned them over, looking excited.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote They\rquote re starting a Duelling Club!\rquote  said Seamus. \lquote 
First meeting tonight! I wouldn\rquote t mind duelling lessons, they might come in handy one of these days ...\rquote 
\par \lquote What, you reckon Slytherin\rquote s monster can duel?\rquote  said Ron, but he too read the sign with interest.
\par \lquote Could be useful,\rquote  he said to Harry and Hermione as they went into dinner. \lquote Shall we go?\rquote 
\par Harry and Hermione were all for it, so at eight o\rquote 
clock that evening they hurried back to the Great Hall. The long dining tables had vanished and a golden stage had appeared along one wall, lit by thousands of candles floating overhead. The ceiling was velvety black once 
more and most of the school seemed to be packed beneath it, all carrying their wands and looking excited.
\par \lquote I wonder who\rquote ll be teaching us?\rquote  said Hermione, as they edged into the chattering crowd. \lquote Someone told me Flitwick was a duelling champion when he was young, maybe it\rquote ll be him.\rquote 
\par \lquote As long as it\rquote s not \endash \rquote  Harry began, but he ended on a groan: Gilderoy Lockhart was walking onto the stage, resplendent in robes of deep plum and accompanied by none other than Snape, wearing his usual black.
\par Lockhart waved an arm for silence and called, \lquote Gather round, gather round! Can everyone see me? Can you all hear me? Excellent!
\par \lquote Now, Professor Dumbledore has granted me permission to start this little Duelling Club, to train you all up in case you ever need to defend yourselves as I myself have done on countless occasions \endash  for full details, see my published works.

\par \lquote Let me introduce my assistant Professor Snape,\rquote  said Lockhart, flashing a wide smile. \lquote He tells me h
e knows a tiny little bit about duelling himself and has sportingly agreed to help me with a short demonstration before we begin. Now, I don\rquote t want any of you youngsters to worry \endash  you\rquote ll still have your Potions master when I\rquote 
m through with him, never fear!\rquote 
\par \lquote Wouldn\rquote t it be good if they finished each other off?\rquote  Ron mut\-tered in Harry\rquote s ear.
\par Snape\rquote s upper lip was curling. Harry wondered why Lockhart was still smiling; if Snape had been looking at }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 him}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  like that he\rquote d have been running as fast as he could in the opposite direction.
\par Lockhart and Snape turned to face each other and bowed; at least, Lockhart did, with much twirling of his hands, whereas Snape jerked his head irritably. Then they raised their wands like swords in front of them.
\par \lquote As you see, we are holding our wands in the accepted combat\-ive position,\rquote  Lockhart told the silent crowd. \lquote On the count of three, we will cast our first spells. Neither of us will be aiming to kill, of course.\rquote 
\par \lquote I wouldn\rquote t bet on that,\rquote  Harry murmured, watching Snape baring his teeth.
\par \lquote One \endash  two \endash  three \endash \rquote 
\par Both of them swung their wands up and over their shoulders. Snape cried: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Expelliarmus!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  There was a dazzling flash of scarlet light and Lockhart was blasted off his feet: he flew backwards off the stage, smashed into the wall and slid down it to sprawl on the floor.
\par Malfoy and some of the other Slytherins cheered. Hermione was dancing on tiptoes. \lquote Do you think he\rquote s all right?\rquote  she squealed through her fingers.
\par \lquote Who cares?\rquote  said Harry and Ron together.
\par Lockhart was getting unsteadily to his feet. His hat had fallen off and his wavy hair was standing on end.
\par \lquote Well, there you have it!\rquote  he said, tottering back onto the plat\-form. \lquote That was a Disarming Charm \endash  as you see, I\rquote ve lost my wand \endash  ah, thank you, Miss Brown. Yes, an ex
cellent idea to show them that, Professor Snape, but if you don\rquote 
t mind my saying so, it was very obvious what you were about to do. If I had wanted to stop you it would have been only too easy. However, I felt it would be instructive to let them see ...\rquote 
\par Snape was looking murderous. Possibly Lockhart had noticed, because he said, \lquote Enough demonstrating! I\rquote m going to come amongst you now and put you all into pairs. Professor Snape, if you\rquote d like to help me ...\rquote 
\par They moved through the crowd, matching up partners. Lockhart teamed Neville with Justin Finch-Fletchley, but Snape reached Harry and Ron first.
\par \lquote Time to split up the dream team, I think,\rquote  he sneered. \lquote Weasley, you can partner Finnigan. Potter \endash \rquote 
\par Harry moved automatically towards Hermione.
\par \lquote I don\rquote t think so,\rquote  said Snape, smiling coldly. \lquote Mr Malfoy, come over here. Let\rquote s see what you make of the famous Potter. And you, Miss Granger \endash  you can partner Miss Bulstrode.\rquote 
\par Malfoy strutted over, smirking. Behind him walked a Slytherin girl who reminded Harry of a picture he\rquote d seen in }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Holidays with Hags.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 
\ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  She was large and square and her heavy jaw jutted aggres\-sively. Hermione gave her a weak smile which she did not return.
\par \lquote Face your partners!\rquote  called Lockhart, back on the platform, \lquote and bow!\rquote 
\par Harry and Malfoy barely inclined their heads, not taking their eyes off each other.
\par \lquote Wands at the ready!\rquote  shouted Lockhart. \lquote When I count to three, cast your charms to disarm your opponent \endash  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 only}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 
\ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  to disarm them \endash  we don\rquote t want any accidents. One ... two ... three ...\rquote 
\par Harry swung his wand over his shoulder, but Malfoy had already started on \lquote two\rquote : his spell hit Harry so hard he felt as though he\rquote 
d been hit over the head with a saucepan. He stumbled, but everything still seemed to be working, and wasting no more time, Harry pointed his wand straight at Malfoy and shouted, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Rictusempra!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par A jet of silver light hit Malfoy in the stomach and he doubled up, wheezing.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote I said disarm only!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
 Lockhart shouted in alarm over the heads of the battling crowd, as Malfoy sank to his knees; Harry had hit him with a Tickling Charm, and he could barely move for laugh\-
ing. Harry hung back, with a vague feeling it would be unsporting to bewitch Malfoy while he was on the floor, but this was a mis\-take. Gasping for breath, Malfoy pointed his wand at Harry\rquote s knees, choked, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Tarantallegra!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  and next second Harry\rquote 
s legs had begun to jerk around out of his control in a kind of quickstep.
\par \lquote Stop! Stop!\rquote  screamed Lockhart, but Snape took charge.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Finite Incantatem!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  he shouted; Harry\rquote 
s feet stopped dancing, Malfoy stopped laughing and they were able to look up.
\par A haze of greenish smoke was hovering over the scene. Both Neville and Justin were lying on the floor, panting; Ron was hold\-ing up an ashen-faced Seamus, apologising for whatev
er his broken wand had done; but Hermione and Millicent Bulstrode were still moving; Millicent had Hermione in a headlock and Hermione was whimpering in pain. Both their wands lay forgotten on the floor. Harry leapt forward and pulled Millicent off. It wa
s difficult; she was a lot bigger than he was.
\par \lquote Dear, dear,\rquote  said Lockhart, skittering through the crowd, look\-ing at the aftermath of the duels. \lquote Up you get, Macmillan ... careful there, Miss Fawcett ... pinch it hard, it\rquote ll stop bleeding in a second, Boot ...
\par \lquote I think I\rquote d better teach you how to }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 block}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  unfriendly spells,
\rquote  said Lockhart, standing flustered in the midst of the hall. He glanced at Snape, whose black eyes glinted, and looked quickly away. Let\rquote s have a volunteer pair \endash  Longbottom and Finch-Fletchley, how about you?\rquote 
\par \lquote A bad idea, Professor Lockhart,\rquote  said Snape, gliding over like a large and malevolent bat. \lquote Longbottom causes devastation with the simplest spells. We\rquote ll be sending what\rquote 
s left of Finch-Fletchley up to the hospital wing in a matchbox.\rquote  Neville\rquote s round pink face went pinker. \lquote How about Malfoy and Potter?\rquote  said Snape with a twisted smile.
\par \lquote Excellent idea!\rquote  said Lockhart, gesturing Harry and Malfoy into the middle of the Hall as the crowd backed away to give them room.
\par \lquote Now, Harry,\rquote  said Lockhart, \lquote when Draco points his wand at you, you do }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 this.\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par He raised his own wand, attempted a complicated sort of wig\-gling action and dropped it. Snape smirked as Lockhart quickly picked it up, saying, \lquote Whoops \endash  my wand is a little over-excited.\rquote 
\par Snape moved closer to Malfoy, bent down and whispered some\-thing in his ear. Malfoy smirked, too. Harry looked nervously up at Lockhart and said, \lquote Professor, could you show me that blocking thing again?\rquote 
\par \lquote Scared?\rquote  muttered Malfoy, so that Lockhart couldn\rquote t hear him.
\par \lquote You wish,\rquote  said Harry out of the corner of his mouth.
\par Lockhart cuffed Harry merrily on the shoulder. \lquote Just do what I did, Harry!\rquote 
\par \lquote What, drop my wand?\rquote 
\par But Lockhart wasn\rquote t listening.
\par \lquote Three \endash  two \endash  one \endash  go!\rquote  he shouted.
\par Malfoy raised his wand quickly and bellowed, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Serpensortia!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par The end of his wand exploded. Harry watched, aghast, as a long black snake shot out of it, fell heavily onto the floor between them and raised itself, ready to strike. There were screams as the crowd backed swiftly away, clearing the floor.
\par \lquote Don\rquote t move, Potter,\rquote  said Snape lazily, clearly enjoying the sight of Harry standing motionless, eye to eye with the angry snake. \lquote I\rquote ll get rid of it ...\rquote 
\par \lquote Allow me!\rquote  shouted Lockhart. He brandished his wand at the snake and there was a 
loud bang; the snake, instead of vanishing, flew ten feet into the air and fell back to the floor with a loud smack. Enraged, hissing furiously, it slithered straight towards Justin Finch-Fletchley and raised itself again, fangs exposed, poised to strike.

\par Harry wasn\rquote t sure what made him do it. He wasn\rquote t even aware of deciding to do it. All he knew was that his legs were carrying him forward as though he was on castors and that he had shouted stupidly at the snake, \lquote Leave him!\rquote 
 And miraculously \endash  inexplica\-bly \endash  the snake slumped to the floor, docile as a thick black gar\-den hose, its eyes now on Harry. Harry felt the fear drain out of him. He knew the snake wouldn\rquote 
t attack anyone now, though how he knew it, he couldn\rquote t have explained.
\par He looked up at Justin, grinning, expecting to see Justin look\-ing relieved, or puzzled, or even grateful \endash  but certainly not angry and scared.
\par \lquote What do you think you\rquote re playing at?\rquote  he shouted, and before Harry could say anything, Justin had turned and stormed out of the Hall.
\par Snape stepped forward, waved his wand and the snake van\-ished in a small puff of black smoke. Snape, too, was looking at Harry in an unexpected way: it was a shrewd and calculating look, and Harry didn\rquote 
t like it. He was also dimly aware of an ominous muttering all around the walls. Then he felt a tugging on the back of his robes.
\par \lquote Come on,\rquote  said Ron\rquote s voice in his ear. \lquote Move \endash  come }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 on }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 ...\rquote 
\par Ron steered him out of the Hall, Hermione hurrying alongside them. As they went through the doors, the people on either side drew away as though they were frightened of catching something. Harry didn\rquote 
t have a clue what was going on, and neither Ron nor Hermione explained anything until they had dragged him all the way up to the empty Gryffindor common room. Then Ron pushed Harry into an armchair and said, \lquote You\rquote re a Parselmouth. Why didn
\rquote t you tell us?\rquote 
\par \lquote I\rquote m a what?\rquote  said Harry.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote A Parselmouth!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  said Ron. \lquote You can talk to snakes!\rquote 

\par \lquote I know,\rquote  said Harry. \lquote I mean, that\rquote s only the second time I\rquote ve ever done it. I accidentally set a boa constrictor on my cousin Dudley at the zoo once \endash  long story \endash 
 but it was telling me it had never seen Brazil and I sort of set it free without meaning to. That was before I knew I was a wizard ...\rquote 
\par \lquote A boa constrictor told you it had never seen Brazil?\rquote  Ron repeated faintly.
\par \lquote So?\rquote  said Harry. \lquote I bet loads of people here can do it.\rquote 
\par \lquote Oh no they can\rquote t,\rquote  said Ron. \lquote It\rquote s not a very common gift. Harry, this is bad.\rquote 
\par \lquote What\rquote s bad?\rquote  said Harry, starting to feel quite angry. \lquote What\rquote s wrong with everyone? Listen, if I hadn\rquote t told that snake not to attack Justin \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote Oh, that\rquote s what you said to it?\rquote 
\par \lquote What d\rquote you mean? You were there ... you heard me.\rquote 
\par \lquote I heard you speaking Parseltongue,\rquote  said Ron, \lquote snake language. You could have been saying anything. No wonder Justin panicked, you sounded like you were egging the snake on or something. It was creepy, you know.\rquote 
\par Harry gaped at him.
\par \lquote I spoke a different language? But \endash  I didn\rquote t realise \endash  how can I speak a language without knowing I can speak it?\rquote 
\par Ron shook his head. Both he and Hermione were looking as though someone had died. Harry couldn\rquote t see what was so terrible.
\par \lquote D\rquote you want to tell me what\rquote s wrong with stopping a dirty great snake biting Justin\rquote s head off?\rquote  he said. \lquote What does it matter }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 how}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  I did it as long as Justin doesn\rquote t have to join the Headless Hunt?\rquote 
\par \lquote It matters,\rquote  said Hermione, speaking at last in a hushed voice, \lquote because being able to talk to snakes was what Salazar Slytherin was famous for. That\rquote s why the symbol of Slytherin house is a serpent.\rquote 
\par Harry\rquote s mouth fell open.
\par \lquote Exactly,\rquote  said Ron. \lquote And now the whole school\rquote s going to think you\rquote re his great-great-great-great-grandson or something ...\rquote 
\par \lquote But I\rquote m not,\rquote  said Harry, with a panic he couldn\rquote t quite explain.
\par \lquote You\rquote ll find that hard to prove,\rquote  said Hermione. \lquote He lived about a thousand years ago; for all we know, you could be.\rquote 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 *
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Harry lay awake for hours that night. Through a gap in the hang\-
ings round his four-poster he watched snow starting to drift past the tower window, and wondered.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Could}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  he be a descendant of Salazar Slytherin? He didn\rquote t know anything about his father\rquote s family, after all. The Dursleys had always forbidden questions about his wizarding relatives.
\par Quietly, Harry tried to say something in Parseltongue. The words wouldn\rquote t come. It seemed he had to be face to face with a snake to do it.
\par \lquote But I\rquote m in }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Gryffindor,\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Harry thought. \lquote 
The Sorting Hat would\-n\rquote t have put me in here if I had Slytherin blood ...\rquote 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Ah,\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  said a nasty little voice in his brain, \lquote But the So
rting Hat }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 wanted}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  to put you in Slytherin, don\rquote t you remember?\rquote 

\par Harry turned over. He\rquote d see Justin next day in Herbology and he\rquote d explain that he\rquote d been calling the snake off, not egging it on, which (he thought angrily, pummelling his pillow) any fool should have realised.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 *
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 By next morning, however,
 the snow that had begun in the night had turned into a blizzard so thick that the last Herbology lesson of term was cancelled: Professor Sprout wanted to fit socks and scarves on the Mandrakes, a tricky operation she would entrust to no one else, now tha
t it was so important for the Mandrakes to grow quickly and revive Mrs Norris and Colin Creevey.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Harry fretted about this next to the fire in the Gryffindor com\-
mon room, while Ron and Hermione used their lesson off to play a game of wizard chess.
\par \lquote For heaven\rquote s sake, Harry,\rquote  said Hermione, exasperated, as one of Ron\rquote s bishops wrestled her knight off his horse and dragged him off the board. \lquote Go and }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 find}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Justin if it\rquote s so important to you.\rquote 
\par So Harry got up and left through the portrait hole, wondering where Justin might be.
\par The castle was darker than it usually was in daytime, because of the thick, swirling grey snow at every window. Shivering, Harry walked past classrooms where lessons were taking place, catching snatches of what was happening within. Professo
r McGonagall was shouting at someone who, by the sound of it, had turned his friend into a badger. Resisting the urge to take a look, Harry walked on by, thinking that Justin might be using his free lesson to catch up on some work, and deciding to check t
he library first.
\par A group of the Hufflepuffs who should have been in Herbology were indeed sitting at the back of the library, but they didn\rquote t seem to be working. Between the long lines of high bookshelves, Harry could see that their heads were close togeth
er and they were hav\-ing what looked like an absorbing conversation. He couldn\rquote 
t see whether Justin was among them. He was walking towards them when something of what they were saying met his ears, and he paused to listen, hidden in the Invisibility section.
\par \lquote So anyway,\rquote  a stout boy was saying, \lquote I told Justin to hide up in our dormitory. I mean to say, if Potter\rquote s marked him down as his next victim, it\rquote s best if he keeps a low profile for a while. Of course, Justin\rquote 
s been waiting for something like this to happen ever since he let slip to Potter he was Muggle-born. Justin actually }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 told}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  him he\rquote d been down for Eton. That\rquote s not the kind of thing you bandy about with Slytherin\rquote s heir on the loose, is it?\rquote 
\par \lquote You definitely think it }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 is}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Potter, then, Ernie?\rquote  said a 
girl with blonde pigtails anxiously.
\par \lquote Hannah,\rquote  said the stout boy solemnly, \lquote he\rquote s a Parselmouth. Everyone knows that\rquote s the mark of a dark wizard. Have you ever heard of a decent one who could talk to snakes? They called Slytherin himself Serpent-tongue.
\rquote 
\par There was some heavy murmuring at this, and Ernie went on, \lquote Remember what was written on the wall? }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Enemies of the Heir Beware.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Potter had some sort of run-in with Filch. Next thing we know, Filch\rquote s cat\rquote s attacked. That first-year, Creevey, was annoying Pott
er at the Quidditch match, taking pictures of him while he was lying in the mud. Next thing we know, Creevey\rquote s been attacked.\rquote 
\par \lquote He always seems so nice, though,\rquote  said Hannah uncertainly, \lquote and, well, he\rquote s the one who made You Know Who disappear. He can\rquote t be all bad, can he?\rquote 
\par Ernie lowered his voice mysteriously, the Hufflepuffs bent closer, and Harry edged nearer so that he could catch Ernie\rquote s words.
\par \lquote No one knows how he survived that attack by You Know Who. I mean to say, he was only a baby when it happened. He should have been blasted into smithereens. Only a really powerful Dark Wizard could have survived a curse like that.\rquote 
 He dropped his voice until it was barely more than a whisper, and said, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote That\rquote s}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  probably why You Know Who wanted to kill him in the first place. Didn\rquote t want another Dark Lord }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 competing}{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  with him. I won\-der what other powers Potter\rquote s been hiding?\rquote 
\par Harry couldn\rquote t take any more. Clearing his throat loudly, he stepped out from behind the bookshelves. If he hadn\rquote t been feel\-ing so angry, he w
ould have found the sight that greeted him funny: every one of the Hufflepuffs looked as though they had been Petrified by the sight of him, and the colour was draining out of Ernie\rquote s face.
\par \lquote Hello,\rquote  said Harry. \lquote I\rquote m looking for Justin Finch-Fletchley.\rquote 
\par The Hufflepuffs\rquote  worst fears had clearly been confirmed. They all looked fearfully at Ernie.
\par \lquote What do you want with him?\rquote  said Ernie, in a quavering voice.
\par \lquote I wanted to tell him what really happened with that snake at the Duelling Club,\rquote  said Harry.
\par Ernie bit his white lips and then, taking a deep breath, said, \lquote We were all there. We saw what happened.\rquote 
\par \lquote Then you noticed that, after I spoke to it, the snake backed off?\rquote  said Harry.
\par \lquote All I saw,\rquote  said Ernie stubbornly, though he was trembling as he spoke, \lquote was you speaking Parseltongue and chasing the snake towards Justin.\rquote 
\par \lquote I didn\rquote t chase it at him!\rquote  Harry said, his voice shaking with anger. \lquote It didn\rquote t even }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 touch}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  him!\rquote 
\par \lquote It was a very near miss,\rquote  said Ernie. \lquote And in case you\rquote re getting ideas,\rquote  he added hastily, \lquote I might tell you that you can trace my family back through nine generations of witches and warlocks and my blood
\rquote s as pure as anyone\rquote s, so \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote I don\rquote t care what sort of blood you\rquote ve got!\rquote  said Harry fiercely. \lquote Why would I want to attack Muggle-borns?\rquote 
\par \lquote I\rquote ve heard you hate those Muggles you live with,\rquote  said Ernie swiftly.
\par \lquote It\rquote s not possible to live with the Dursleys and not hate them,\rquote  said Harry. \lquote I\rquote d like to see you try it.\rquote 
\par He turned on his heel and stormed out of the library, earning himself a reproving glare from Madam Pince, who was polishing the gilded cover of a large spellbook.
\par Harry blundered up the corridor, barely noticing where he was going, he was in such a fury. The result was that he walked into something very large and solid, which knocked him backwards onto the floor.
\par \lquote Oh, hullo, Hagrid,\rquote  Harry said, looking up.
\par Hagrid\rquote s face was entirely hidden by a woolly, snow-covered balaclava, but it couldn\rquote t possibly be anyone else, as he filled most of the corridor in his moleskin overcoat. A dead rooster was hang\-ing from one of his massive, gloved hands.

\par \lquote All righ\rquote , Harry?\rquote  he said, pulling up the balaclava so he could speak. \lquote Why aren\rquote t yeh in class?\rquote 
\par \lquote Cancelled,\rquote  said Harry, getting up. \lquote What\rquote re you doing in here?\rquote 
\par Hagrid held up the limp rooster.
\par \lquote Second one killed this term,\rquote  he explained. \lquote It\rquote s either foxes or a Blood-Suckin\rquote  Bugbear, an\rquote  I need the Headmaster\rquote s permission ter put a charm round the hen-coop.\rquote 
\par He peered more closely at Harry from under his thick, snow-flecked eyebrows.
\par \lquote Yeh sure yeh\rquote re all righ\rquote ? Yeh look all hot an\rquote  bothered.\rquote 
\par Harry couldn\rquote t bring himself to repeat what Ernie and the rest of the Hufflepuffs had been saying about him.
\par \lquote It\rquote s nothing,\rquote  he said. \lquote I\rquote d better get going, Hagrid, it\rquote s Transfiguration next and I\rquote ve got to pick up my books.\rquote 
\par He walked off, his mind still full of what Ernie had said about him.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Justin\rquote s been waiting for something like this to happen ever since he let slip to Potter he was Muggle-born ...\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par Harry stamped up the stairs and turned along another corridor, which was particularly dark; the torches had been extinguished by a strong, icy draught which was blowing through a loose window pane. He was halfway down the passage
 when he tripped head-long over something lying on the floor.
\par He turned to squint at what he\rquote d fallen over, and felt as though his stomach had dissolved.
\par Justin Finch-Fletchley was lying on the floor, rigid and cold, a look of shock frozen on his face, his eyes staring blankly at the ceiling. And that wasn\rquote t all. Next to him was another figure, the strangest sight Harry had ever seen.
\par It was Nearly Headless Nick, no longer pearly-white and trans\-parent, but black and smoky, floating immobile and horizontal, six inches off the floor. His head was half off and his face wore an expression of shock identical to Justin\rquote s.
\par Harry got to his feet, his breathing fast and shallow, his heart doing a kind of drum-roll against his ribs. He looked wildly up and down the d
eserted corridor and saw a line of spiders scuttling as fast as they could away from the bodies. The only sounds were the muffled voices of teachers from the classes on either side.
\par He could run, and no one would ever know he had been there. But he couldn\rquote t just leave them lying here ... he had to get help. Would anyone believe he hadn\rquote t had anything to do with this?
\par As he stood there, panicking, a door right next to him opened with a bang. Peeves the poltergeist came shooting out.
\par \lquote Why, it\rquote s potty wee Potter!\rquote  cackled Peeves, knocking Harry\rquote s glasses askew as he bounced past him. \lquote What\rquote s Potter up to? Why\rquote s Potter lurking \endash \rquote 
\par Peeves stopped, halfway through a mid-air somersault. Upside-down, he spotted Justin and Nearly Headless Nick. He flipped the right wa
y up, filled his lungs and, before Harry could stop him, screamed, ATTACK! ATTACK! ANOTHER ATTACK! NO MORTAL OR GHOST IS SAFE! RUN FOR YOUR LIVES! ATTAAAACK!\rquote 
\par Crash \endash  crash \endash  crash: door after door flew open along the corridor and people flooded out. For s
everal long minutes, there was a scene of such confusion that Justin was in danger of being squashed and people kept standing in Nearly Headless Nick. Harry found himself pinned against the wall as the teachers shouted for quiet. Professor McGonagall came
 
running, followed by her own class, one of whom still had black and white striped hair. She used her wand to set off a loud bang, which restored silence, and ordered everyone back into their classes. No sooner had the scene cleared somewhat than Ernie the
 Hufflepuff arrived, panting, on the scene.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Caught in the act!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
 Ernie yelled, his face stark white, pointing his finger dramatically at Harry.
\par \lquote That will do, Macmillan!\rquote  said Professor McGonagall sharply.
\par Peeves was bobbing overhead, now grinning wickedly, survey\-ing the scene; Peeves always loved chaos. As the teachers bent over Justin and Nearly Headless Nick, examining them, Peeves broke into song:
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Oh Potter, you rotter, oh what have you done?}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 You\rquote re killing off students, you think it\rquote s good fun \endash \rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par \lquote That\rquote s enough Peeves!\rquote  barked Professor McGonagall, and Peeves zoomed away backwards, with his tongue out at Harry.
\par Justin was carried up to the hospital wing by Professor Flitwick and Professor Sinistra of the Astronomy department, but nobody seemed to kn
ow what to do for Nearly Headless Nick. In the end, Professor McGonagall conjured a large fan out of thin air, which she gave to Ernie with instructions to waft Nearly Headless Nick up the stairs. This Ernie did, fanning Nick along like a silent black hov
ercraft. This left Harry and Professor McGonagall alone together.
\par \lquote This way, Potter,\rquote  she said.
\par \lquote Professor,\rquote  said Harry at once, \lquote I swear I didn\rquote t \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote This is out of my hands, Potter,\rquote  said Professor McGonagall curtly.
\par They marched in silence around a corner and she stopped before a large and extremely ugly stone gargoyle.
\par \lquote Sherbet lemon!\rquote  she said. This was evidently a password, because the gargoyle sprang suddenly to life, and hopped aside as the wall behind him split in two. Even full of dread for what was coming, Harry couldn\rquote 
t fail to be amazed. Behind the wall was a spiral staircase which was moving smoothly upwards, like an escalator. As he and Professor McGonagall stepped onto it, Harry heard the wall thud closed behind them. They rose upwards in circ
les, higher and higher, until at last, slightly dizzy, Harry could see a gleaming oak door ahead, with a brass knocker in the shape of a griffon.
\par He knew where he was being taken. This must be where Dumbledore lived.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \page 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \emdash  CHAPTER TWELVE \emdash 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sa280\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs56 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs56\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 The Polyjuice Potion
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sa280\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
They stepped off the stone staircase at the top and Professor McGonagall rapped on the door. It opened silently and they entered. Professor McGonagall told Harry to wait, and left him there, alone.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Harry looked around. One thing was certain: of all the teachers\rquote 
 offices Harry had visited so far this year, Dumbledore\rquote s was by far the most interesting. If he hadn\rquote 
t been scared out of his wits that he was about to be thrown out of school, he would have been very pleased to have a chance to look around it.
\par It was a large and beautiful circular room, full of funny little noises. A number of curious silver instruments stood on spindle-legged tables, whirring and emitting little puffs of smoke. The walls were covered with portraits of old headmasters and head
\-mistresses, all of whom were snoozing gently in their frames. There was also an enormous, claw-footed desk, and, sitting on a shelf behind it, a shabby, tattered wizard\rquote s hat \endash  the }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Sorting Hat.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par Harry hesitated. He cast a wary eye around the sleeping witches and wizards on the walls. Surely it couldn\rquote t hurt if he took the Hat down and tried it on again? Just to see ... just to make sure it }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 had}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  put him in the right house.
\par He walked quietly around the desk, lifted the Hat from its shelf, and lowered it slowly onto his head. It was much too large and slipped down over his eyes, just as it had done the last time he\rquote 
d put it on. Harry stared at the black inside of the Hat, waiting. Then a small voice said in his ear, \lquote Bee in your bonnet, Harry Potter?\rquote 
\par \lquote Er, yes,\rquote  Harry muttered. \lquote Er \endash  sorry to bother you \endash  I wanted to ask \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote You\rquote ve been wondering whether I put you in the right house,\rquote  said the Hat smartly. \lquote Yes ... you were particularly difficult to place. But I stand by what I said before \endash \rquote  Harry\rquote s heart leapt \lquote 
\endash  you }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 would}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  have done well in Slytherin.\rquote 
\par Harry\rquote s stomach plummeted. He grabbed the point of the Hat and pulled it off. It hung limply in his hand, grubby and faded. Harry pushed it back onto its shelf, feeling sick.
\par \lquote You\rquote re wrong,\rquote  he said aloud to the still and silent Hat. It didn\rquote t move. Harry backed away, watching it. Then a strange, gagging noise behind him made him wheel around.
\par He wasn\rquote t alone after all. Standing on a golden perch behind the door was a decrepit-looking bird which resembled a half-plucked turkey. Harry stared at it and the bird looked balefully back, mak\-
ing its gagging noise again. Harry thought it looked very ill. Its eyes were dull and, even as Harry watched, a couple more feathers fell out of its tail.
\par Harry was just thinking that all he needed was for Dumbledore\rquote s pet bird to die while he was alone in the office with it, when the bird burst into flames.
\par Harry yelled in shock and backed away into the desk. He looked feverishly around in case there was a glass of water some\-where, but couldn\rquote 
t see one. The bird, meanwhile, had become a fireball; it gave one loud shriek and next second there was noth\-ing but a smouldering pile of ash on the floor.
\par The office door opened. Dumbledore came in, looking very sombre.
\par \lquote Professor,\rquote  Harry gasped, \lquote your bird \endash  I couldn\rquote t do anything \endash  he just caught fire \endash \rquote 
\par To Harry\rquote s astonishment, Dumbledore smiled.
\par \lquote About time, too,\rquote  he said. \lquote He\rquote s been looking dreadful for days, I\rquote ve been telling him to get a move on.\rquote 
\par He chuckled at the stunned look on Harry\rquote s face.
\par \lquote Fawkes is a phoenix, Harry. Phoenixes burst into flame when it is time for them to die and are reborn from the ashes. Watch him ...\rquote 
\par Harry looked down in time to see a tiny, wrinkled, new-born bird poke its head out of the ashes. It was quite as ugly as the old one.
\par \lquote It\rquote s a shame you had to see him on a Burning Day,\rquote  said Dumbledore, seating himself behind his desk. \lquote He\rquote 
s really very handsome most of the time: wonderful red and gold plumage. Fascinating creatures, phoenixes. They can carry immensely heavy loads, their tears have healing powers and they make highly }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 faithful}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  pets.\rquote 
\par In the shock of Fawkes catching fire, Harry had forgotten what he was there for, but it all came back to him as Dumbledore set\-tled himself in the high-backed chair behind the desk and fixed Harry with his penetrating, light-blue stare.
\par Before Dumbledore could speak another word, however, the door of the office flew open with an almighty bang and Hagrid burst in, a wild look in his eyes, his balaclava perched on top of his 
shaggy black head and the dead rooster still swinging from his hand.
\par \lquote It wasn\rquote  Harry, Professor Dumbledore!\rquote  said Hagrid urgently. \lquote I was talkin\rquote  ter him }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 seconds}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  before that kid was found, he never had time, sir ...\rquote 
\par Dumbledore tried to say something, but Hagrid went ranting on, waving the rooster around in his agitation, sending feathers everywhere.
\par \lquote ... It can\rquote t\rquote ve bin him, I\rquote ll swear it in front o\rquote  the Ministry o\rquote  Magic if I have to ...\rquote 
\par \lquote Hagrid, I \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote ... Yeh\rquote ve got the wrong boy, sir, I }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 know}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Harry never \endash 
\rquote 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Hagrid!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  said Dumbledore loudly. \lquote I do }{\rtlch\fcs1 
\ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 not}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  think that Harry attacked those people.\rquote 
\par \lquote Oh,\rquote  said Hagrid, the rooster falling limply at his side. \lquote Right. I\rquote ll wait outside then, Headmaster.\rquote 
\par And he stomped out looking embarrassed.
\par \lquote You don\rquote t think it was me, Professor?\rquote  Harry repeated hopefully, as Dumbledore brushed rooster feathers off his desk.
\par \lquote No, Harry, I don\rquote t,\rquote  said Dumbledore, though his face was sombre again. \lquote But I still want to talk to you.\rquote 
\par Harry waited nervously while Dumbledore considered him, the tips of his long fingers together.
\par \lquote I must ask you, Harry, whether there is anything you\rquote d like to tell me,\rquote  he said gently. \lquote Anything at all.\rquote 
\par Harry didn\rquote t know what to say. He thought of Malfoy shouting, \lquote You\rquote ll be next, Mudbloods!\rquote  and of the Polyjuice Potion, simmer\-ing away in Moaning Myrtle\rquote 
s bathroom. Then he thought of the disembodied voice he had heard twice and remembered what Ron had said: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Hearing voices no one else can hear isn\rquote 
t a good sign, even in the wizarding world.\rquote  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
He thought, too, about what everyone was saying about him, and his growing dread that he was somehow connected with Salazar Slytherin ...
\par \lquote No,\rquote  said Harry, \lquote there isn\rquote t anything, Professor.\rquote 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 *
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 The double attack on Justin and Nearly Headless Nick turned wha
t had hitherto been nervousness into real panic. Curiously, it was Nearly Headless Nick\rquote 
s fate that seemed to worry people most. What could possibly do that to a ghost, people asked each other; what terrible power could harm someone who was already dead? T
here was almost a stampede to book seats on the Hogwarts Express so that students could go home for Christmas.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote At this rate, we\rquote ll be the only ones left,\rquote 
 Ron told Harry and Hermione. \lquote Us, Malfoy, Crabbe and Goyle. What a jolly holiday it\rquote s going to be.\rquote 
\par Crabbe and Goyle, who always did whatever Malfoy did, had signed up to stay over the holidays too. But Harry was glad that most people were leaving. He was tired of people skirting around him in the corridors, as though he was about to sprout fangs or spi
t poison; tired of all the muttering, pointing and hissing as he passed.
\par Fred and George, however, found all this very funny. They went out of their way to march ahead of Harry down the corridors, shouting, \lquote Make way for the heir of Slytherin, seriously evil wiz\-ard coming through ...\rquote 
\par Percy was deeply disapproving of this behaviour.
\par \lquote It is }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 not}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  a laughing matter,\rquote  he said coldly.
\par \lquote Oh, get out of the way, Percy,\rquote  said Fred. \lquote Harry\rquote s in a hurry.\rquote 
\par \lquote Yeah, he\rquote s nipping off to the Chamber of Secrets for a cup of tea with his fanged servant,\rquote  said George, chortling.
\par Ginny didn\rquote t find it amusing either.
\par \lquote Oh, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 don\rquote t,\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
 she wailed every time Fred asked Harry loudly who he was planning to attack next, or George pretended to ward Harry off with a large clove of garlic when they met.
\par Harry didn\rquote t mind; it made him feel better that Fred and George, at least, thought the idea of his being Slytherin\rquote 
s heir was quite ludicrous. But their antics seemed to be aggravating Draco Malfoy, who looked increasingly sour each time he saw them at it.
\par \lquote It\rquote s because he\rquote s }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 bursting}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  to say it\rquote s really him,
\rquote  said Ron know\-ingly. \lquote You know how he hates anyone beating him at anything, and you\rquote re getting all the credit for his dirty work.\rquote 
\par \lquote Not for long,\rquote  said Hermione in a satisfied tone. \lquote The Polyjuice Potion\rquote s nearly ready. We\rquote ll be getting the truth out of him any day now.\rquote 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 *
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
At last the term ended, and a silence deep as the snow on the grounds descended on the castle. Harry found it peaceful, rather than gloomy, and enjoyed the fact that he, Her
mione and the Weasleys had the run of Gryffindor Tower, which meant they could play Exploding Snap loudly without bothering anyone, and practise duelling in private. Fred, George and Ginny had chosen to stay at school rather than visit Bill in Egypt with 
Mr and Mrs Weasley. Percy, who disapproved of what he termed their childish behaviour, didn\rquote t spend much time in the Gryffindor common room. He had already told them pompously that }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 he}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  was only stay\-ing over Christmas because it was his duty as a Prefect to 
support the teachers during this troubled time.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
Christmas morning dawned, cold and white. Harry and Ron, the only ones left in their dormitory, were woken very early by Hermione, who burst in, fully dressed and carrying presents for them both.
\par \lquote Wake up,\rquote  she said loudly, pulling back the curtains at the win\-dow.
\par \lquote Hermione \endash  you\rquote re not supposed to be in here,\rquote  said Ron, shielding his eyes against the light.
\par \lquote Merry Christmas to you, too,\rquote  said Hermione, throwing him his present. \lquote I\rquote ve been up for nearly an hour, adding more lacewings to the Potion. It\rquote s ready.\rquote 
\par Harry sat up, suddenly wide awake.
\par \lquote Are you sure?\rquote 
\par \lquote Positive,\rquote  said Hermione, shifting Scabbers the rat so that she could sit down on the end of his four-poster. \lquote If we\rquote re going to do it, I say it should be tonight.\rquote 
\par At that moment, Hedwig swooped into the room, carrying a very small package in her beak.
\par \lquote Hello,\rquote  said Harry happily, as she landed on his bed, \lquote are you speaking to me again?\rquote 
\par She nibbled his ear in an affectionate sort of way, which was a far better present than the one which she had brought him, which turned out to be from the Dursleys. They had sent Harry a tooth-pick and a note telling him to find out whether he\rquote 
d be able to stay at Hogwarts for the summer holidays, too.
\par The rest of Harry\rquote s Christmas presents were far more satisfac\-tory. Hagrid had sent him a large tin of treacle fudge, which Harry decided to soften by the fire before eating; Ron had given him a book called }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Flying with the Cannons,}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
 a book of interesting facts about his favourite Quidditch team; and Hermione had bought him a luxury eagle-feather quill. Harry opened the last present to find a new, hand-knitted jumper from Mrs Weasley, and a large plum cake. He p
ut up her card with a fresh surge of guilt, think\-ing about Mr Weasley\rquote s car, which hadn\rquote t been seen since its crash with the Whomping Willow, and the bout of rule-breaking he and Ron were planning next.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 *
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 No one, not even someone dreading taking Polyjuice
 Potion later, could fail to enjoy Christmas dinner at Hogwarts.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
The Great Hall looked magnificent. Not only were there a dozen frost-covered Christmas trees and thick streamers of holly and mistletoe criss-crossing the ceiling, but enchanted snow was fall
ing, warm and dry, from the ceiling. Dumbledore led them in a few of his favourite carols, Hagrid booming more and more loudly with every goblet of eggnog he consumed. Percy, who hadn\rquote 
t noticed that Fred had bewitched his prefect badge so that it now read \lquote Pinhead\rquote , kept asking them all what they were sniggering at. Harry didn\rquote 
t even care that Draco Malfoy was making loud, snide remarks about his new jumper from the Slytherin table. With a bit of luck, Malfoy would be getting his come-uppance in a few hours\rquote  time.
\par Harry and Ron had barely finished their third helpings of Christmas pudding when Hermione ushered them out of the Hall to finalise their plans for the evening.
\par \lquote We still need a bit of the people you\rquote re changing into,\rquote  said Hermione matter-of-factly, as though she was sending them to the supermarket for washing-powder. \lquote And obviously, it\rquote 
ll be best if you can get something of Crabbe and Goyle\rquote s; they\rquote re Malfoy\rquote s best friends, he\rquote ll tell them anything. And we also need to make sure the real Crabbe and Goyle can\rquote t burst in on us while we\rquote re interro
\-gating him.
\par \lquote I\rquote ve got it all worked out,\rquote  she went on smoothly, ignoring Harry and Ron\rquote s stupefied faces. She held up two plump chocolate cakes. \lquote I\rquote ve filled these with a simple Sleeping Draught. All you have
 to do is make sure Crabbe and Goyle find them. You know how greedy they are, they\rquote re bound to eat them. Once they\rquote re asleep, pull out a few of their hairs and hide them in a broom cup\-board.\rquote 
\par Harry and Ron looked incredulously at each other.
\par \lquote Hermione, I don\rquote t think \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote That could go seriously wrong \endash \rquote 
\par But Hermione had a steely glint in her eye not unlike the one Professor McGonagall sometimes had.
\par \lquote The Potion will be useless without Crabbe and Goyle\rquote s hair,\rquote  she said sternly. \lquote You do }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 want}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  to investigate Malfoy, don\rquote t you?\rquote 
\par \lquote Oh, all right, all right,\rquote  said Harry. \lquote But what about you? Whose hair are you ripping out?\rquote 
\par \lquote I\rquote ve already got mine!\rquote  said Hermione brightly, pulling a tiny bottle out of her pocket and showing them the single hair inside it. \lquote Remember 
Millicent Bulstrode wrestling with me at the Duelling Club? She left this on my robes when she was trying to strangle me! And she\rquote s gone home for Christmas \endash  so I\rquote ll just have to tell the Slytherins I\rquote ve decided to come back.
\rquote 
\par When Hermione had bustled off to check on the Polyjuice Potion again, Ron turned to Harry with a doom-laden expression.
\par \lquote Have you ever heard of a plan where so many things could go wrong?\rquote 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 *
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 But to Harry and Ron\rquote s utter amazement, stage one of the opera\-
tion went just as smoothly as Hermione had said. They lurked in the deserted Entrance Hall after Christmas tea, waiting for Crabbe and Goyle, who had remained alone at the Slytherin table, shovel\-
ling down fourth helpings of trifle. Harry had perched the choco\-late cakes on the end of the banisters. When they spotted Crabbe and Goyle coming out of the Great Hall, Harry and Ron hid quickly behind a suit of armour next to the front door.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote How thick can you get?\rquote 
 Ron whispered ecstatically, as Crabbe gleefully pointed out the cakes to Goyle
 and grabbed them. Grinning stupidly, they stuffed the cakes whole into their large mouths. For a moment, both of them chewed greedily, looks of triumph on their faces. Then, without the smallest change of expression, they both keeled over backwards onto 
the floor.
\par Much the most difficult bit was hiding them in the cupboard across the hall. Once they were safely stowed amongst the buckets and mops, Harry yanked out a couple of the bristles that covered Goyle\rquote s forehead and Ron pulled out several of Crabbe
\rquote s hairs. They also stole their shoes, because their own were far too small for Crabbe- and Goyle-sized feet. Then, still stunned at what they had just done, they sprinted up to Moaning Myrtle\rquote s bathroom.
\par They could hardly see for the thick black smoke issuing from the cubicle in which Hermione was stirring the cauldron. Pulling their robes up over their faces, Harry and Ron knocked softly on the door.
\par \lquote Hermione?\rquote 
\par They heard the scrape of the lock and Hermione emerged, shiny-faced and looking anxious. Behind her they heard the }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 gloop gloop}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  of the bubbling, treacle-thick Potion. Three glass tumblers stood ready on the toilet seat.
\par \lquote Did you get them?\rquote  Hermione asked breathlessly.
\par Harry showed her Goyle\rquote s hair.
\par \lquote Good. And I sneaked these spare robes out of the laundry,\rquote  Hermione said, holding up a small sack. \lquote You\rquote ll need bigger sizes once you\rquote re Crabbe and Goyle.\rquote 
\par The three of them stared into the cauldron. Close up, the Potion looked like thick, dark mud, bubbling sluggishly.
\par \lquote I\rquote m sure I\rquote ve done everything right,\rquote  said Hermione, nervously re-reading the splotched page of }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Moste Potente Potions.}{\rtlch\fcs1 
\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  \lquote It looks like the book says it should ... Once we\rquote ve drunk it, we\rquote ll have exactly an hour before we change back into ourselves.\rquote 
\par \lquote Now what?\rquote  Ron whispered.
\par \lquote We separate it into three glasses and add the hairs.\rquote 
\par Hermione ladled large dollops of the Potion into each of the glasses. Then, her hand trembling, she shook Millicent Bulstrode\rquote s hair out of its bottle into the first glass.
\par The Potion hissed loudly like a boiling kettle and frothed madly. A second later, it had turned a sick sort of yellow.
\par \lquote Urgh \endash  essence of Millicent Bulstrode,\rquote  said Ron, eyeing it with loathing. \lquote Bet it tastes disgusting.\rquote 
\par \lquote Add yours, then,\rquote  said Hermione.
\par Harry dropped Goyle\rquote s hair into the middle glass and Ron put Crabbe\rquote s into the last one. Both glasses hissed and frothed: Goyle\rquote s turned the khaki colour of a bogey, Crabbe\rquote s a dark, murky brown.
\par \lquote Hang on,\rquote  said Harry, as Ron and Hermione reached for their glasses. \lquote We\rquote d better not all drink them in here: once we turn into Crabbe and Goyle we won\rquote t fit. And Millicent Bulstrode\rquote s no pixie.\rquote 
\par \lquote Good thinking,\rquote  said Ron, unlocking the door. \lquote We\rquote ll take sep\-arate cubicles.\rquote 
\par Careful not to spill a drop of his Polyjuice Potion, Harry slipped into the middle cubicle.
\par \lquote Ready?\rquote  he called.
\par \lquote Ready,\rquote  came Ron and Hermione\rquote s voices.
\par \lquote One ... two ... three ...\rquote 
\par Pinching his nose, Harry drank the Potion down in two large gulps. It tasted like overcooked cabbage.
\par Immediately, his insides started writhing as though he\rquote d just swallowed live snakes \endash  doubled up, he wondered whether he was going to be sick \endash  then a burning sensation spread rapidly from his stomach to the very en
ds of his fingers and toes. Next, bring\-
ing him gasping to all fours, came a horrible melting feeling, as the skin all over his body bubbled like hot wax, and before his eyes, his hands began to grow, the fingers thickened, the nails broadened and the knuckles were bulging like bolts. His shoul
\-ders stretched painfully and a prickling on his forehead told him that hair was creeping down towards his eyebrows; his robes ripped as his chest expanded like a barrel bursting its hoops; his feet were agony in shoes four sizes too small ...
\par As suddenly as it had started, everything stopped. Harry lay face down on the cold stone floor, listening to Myrtle gurgling morosely in the end toilet. With difficulty, he kicked off his shoes and stood up. So this was what it f
elt like, being Goyle. His large hands trembling, he pulled off his old robes, which were hanging a foot above his ankles, pulled on the spare ones and laced up Goyle\rquote 
s boat-like shoes. He reached up to brush his hair out of his eyes and met only the short growth of wiry bristles, low on his forehead. Then he realised that his glasses were clouding his eyes, because Goyle obviously didn\rquote 
t need them. He took them off and called, \lquote Are you two OK?\rquote  Goyle\rquote s low rasp of a voice issued from his mouth.
\par \lquote Yeah,\rquote  came the deep grunt of Crabbe from his right.
\par Harry unlocked his door and stepped in front of the cracked mirror. Goyle stared back at him out of dull, deep-set eyes. Harry scratched his ear. So did Goyle.
\par Ron\rquote s door opened. They stared at each other. Except that he looked pale and shocked, Ron was indistinguishable from Crabbe, from the pudding-basin haircut to the long, gorilla arms.
\par \lquote This is unbelievable,\rquote  said Ron, approaching the mirror and prodding Crabbe\rquote s flat nose. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Unbelievable.\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 
\ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par \lquote We\rquote d better get going,\rquote  said Harry, loosening the watch that was cutting into Goyle\rquote s thick wrist. \lquote We\rquote ve still got to find out where the Slytherin common room is, I only hope we can find someone to follow ...
\rquote 
\par Ron, who had been gazing at Harry, said, \lquote You don\rquote t know how bizarre it is to see Goyle }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 thinking.\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  He banged on Hermione\rquote s door. \lquote C\rquote mon, we need to go ...\rquote 
\par A high-pitched voice answered him. \lquote I \endash  I don\rquote t think I\rquote m going to come after all. You go on without me.\rquote 
\par \lquote Hermione, we know Millicent Bulstrode\rquote s ugly, no one\rquote s going to know it\rquote s you.\rquote 
\par \lquote No \endash  really \endash  I don\rquote t think I\rquote ll come. You two hurry up, you\rquote re wasting time.\rquote 
\par Harry looked at Ron, bewildered.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote That}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  looks more like Goyle,\rquote  said Ron. \lquote That\rquote 
s how he looks every time a teacher asks him a question.\rquote 
\par \lquote Hermione, are you OK?\rquote  said Harry through the door.
\par \lquote Fine \endash  I\rquote m fine ... Go on \endash \rquote 
\par Harry looked at his watch. Five of their precious sixty minutes had already passed.
\par \lquote We\rquote ll meet you back here, all right?\rquote  he said.
\par Harry and Ron opened the door of the bathroom carefully, checked that the coast was clear and set off.
\par \lquote Don\rquote t swing your arms like that,\rquote  Harry muttered to Ron.
\par \lquote Eh?\rquote 
\par \lquote Crabbe holds them sort of stiff ...\rquote 
\par \lquote How\rquote s this?\rquote 
\par \lquote Yeah, that\rquote s better.\rquote 
\par They went down the marble staircase. All they needed now was a Slytherin whom they could follow to the Slytherin common room, but there was nobody around.
\par \lquote Any ideas?\rquote  muttered Harry.
\par \lquote The Slytherins always come up to breakfast from over there,\rquote  said Ron, nodding at the entrance to the dungeons. The words had barely left his mouth when a girl with long curly hair emerged from the entrance.
\par \lquote Excuse me,\rquote  said Ron, hurrying up to her, \lquote we\rquote ve forgotten the way to our common room.\rquote 
\par \lquote I beg your pardon?\rquote  said the girl stiffly. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Our}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
 common room? }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 I\rquote m}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  a Ravenclaw.\rquote 
\par She walked away, looking suspiciously back at them.
\par Harry and Ron hurried down the stone steps into the darkness, their footsteps echoing particularly loudly as Crabbe and Goyle\rquote s huge feet hit the floor, feeling that this wasn\rquote t going to be as easy as they had hoped.
\par The 
labyrinthine passages were deserted. They walked deeper and deeper under the school, constantly checking their watches to see how much time they had left. After a quarter of an hour, just when they were getting desperate, they heard a sudden movement ahea
d.
\par \lquote Ha!\rquote  said Ron excitedly. \lquote There\rquote s one of them now!\rquote 
\par The figure was emerging from a side room. As they hurried nearer, however, their hearts sank. It wasn\rquote t a Slytherin, it was Percy.
\par \lquote What\rquote re you doing down here?\rquote  said Ron in surprise.
\par Percy looked affronted.
\par \lquote That,\rquote  he said stiffly, \lquote is none of your business. It\rquote s Crabbe, isn\rquote t it?\rquote 
\par \lquote Wh}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \emdash }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  oh, yeah,\rquote  said Ron.
\par \lquote Well, get off to your dormitories,\rquote  said Percy sternly. \lquote It\rquote s not safe to go wandering around dark corridors these days.\rquote 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote You}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  are,\rquote  Ron pointed out.
\par \lquote I,\rquote  said Percy, drawing himself up, \lquote am a Prefect. Nothing\rquote s about to attack }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 me.\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par A voice suddenly echoed behind Harry and Ron. Draco Malfoy was strolling towards them, and for the first time in his life, Harry was pleased to see him.
\par \lquote There you are,\rquote  he drawled, looking at them. \lquote Have you two been pigging out in the Great Hall all this time? I\rquote ve been looking for you, I want to show you something really funny.\rquote 
\par Malfoy glanced witheringly at Percy.
\par \lquote And what\rquote re you doing down here, Weasley?\rquote  he sneered.
\par Percy looked outraged.
\par \lquote You want to show a bit more respect to a school Prefect!\rquote  he said. \lquote I don\rquote t like your attitude!\rquote 
\par Malfoy sneered and motioned Harry and Ron to follow him. Harry almost said something apologetic to Percy but caught him\-self just in time. He and Ron hurried after Malfoy, who said as they turned into the next passage, \lquote That Peter Weasley \endash 
\rquote 
\par \lquote Percy,\rquote  Ron corrected him automatically.
\par \lquote Whatever,\rquote  said Malfoy. \lquote I\rquote ve noticed him sneaking around a lot lately. And I bet I know what he\rquote s up to. He thinks he\rquote s going to catch Slytherin\rquote s heir single-handed.\rquote 
\par He gave a short, derisive laugh. Harry and Ron exchanged excited looks.
\par Malfoy paused by a stretch of bare, damp stone wall.
\par \lquote What\rquote s the new password again?\rquote  he said to Harry.
\par \lquote Er \endash \rquote  said Harry.
\par \lquote Oh yeah \endash  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 pure-blood!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
 said Malfoy, not listening, and a stone door concealed in the wall slid open. Malfoy marched through it and Harry and Ron followed him.
\par The Slytherin common room was a long, low underground room with rough stone walls and ceiling, from which round, greenish lamps were hanging on chains. A fire was crackling under an elaborately carved mantelpiece ahead of them, and sev\-
eral Slytherins were silhouetted around it in carved chairs.
\par \lquote Wait here,\rquote  said Malfoy to Harry and Ron, motioning them to a pair of empty chairs set back from the fire. \lquote I\rquote ll go and get it \endash  my father\rquote s just sent it to me \endash \rquote 
\par Wondering what Malfoy was going to show them, Harry and Ron sat down, doing their best to look at home.
\par Malfoy came back a minute later, holding what looked like a newspaper cutting. He thrust it under Ron\rquote s nose.
\par \lquote That\rquote ll give you a laugh,\rquote  he said.
\par Harry saw Ron\rquote s eyes widen in shock. He read the cutting quickly, gave a very forced laugh and handed it to Harry.
\par It had been clipped out of the }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Daily Prophet,}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  and it said:
\par 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 ENQUIRY AT THE MINISTRY OF MAGIC}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li284\ri284\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin284\lin284\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
Arthur Weasley, Head of the Misuse of Muggle Artefacts Office, was today fined fifty Galleons for bewitching a Muggle car.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li284\ri284\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin284\lin284\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
Mr Lucius Malfoy, a governor of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, where the enchanted car crashed earlier this year, called today for Mr Weasley\rquote s resignation.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Weasley has brought the Ministry info disrepute,\rquote  Mr Malfoy told our reporter. \lquote He is clearly unfit to draw up our}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 
\ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 laws and his ridiculous Muggle Protection Act should be scrapped immediately.\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 
\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Mr Weasley was unavailable for comment, although his wife told reporters to clear off or she\rquote d set the family ghoul on them.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Well?\rquote  said Malfoy impatiently, as Harry handed the cutting back to him. \lquote 
Don\rquote t you think it\rquote s funny?\rquote 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Ha, ha,\rquote  said Harry bleakly.
\par \lquote Arthur Weasley loves Muggles so much he should snap his wand in half and go and join them,\rquote  said Malfoy scornfully. \lquote You\rquote d never know the Weasleys were pure-bloods, the way they behave.\rquote 
\par Ron\rquote s \endash  or rather, Crabbe\rquote s \endash  face was contorted with fury.
\par \lquote What\rquote s up with you, Crabbe?\rquote  snapped Malfoy.
\par \lquote Stomach ache,\rquote  Ron grunted.
\par \lquote Well, go up to the hospital wing and give all those Mudbloods a kick from me,\rquote  said Malfoy, snickering. \lquote You know, I\rquote m surprised the }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
Daily Prophet}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  hasn\rquote t reported all these attacks yet,\rquote  he went on thoughtfully. \lquote I suppose Dumbledore\rquote s trying to hush it all up. He\rquote 
ll be sacked if it doesn\rquote t stop soon. Father\rquote s always said Dumbledore\rquote s the worst thing that\rquote s ever happened to this place. He loves Muggle-borns. A decent Headmaster would never\rquote ve let slime like that Creevey in.
\rquote 
\par Malfoy started taking pictures with an imaginary camera and did a cruel but accurate impression of Colin: \lquote Potter, can I have your picture, Potter? Can I have your autograph? Can I lick your shoes, please, Potter?\rquote 
\par He dropped his hands and looked at Harry and Ron.
\par \lquote What\rquote s the }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 matter}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  with you two?\rquote 
\par Far too late, Harry and Ron forced themselves to laugh, but Malfoy seemed satisfied; perhaps Crabbe and Goyle were always slow on the uptake.
\par \lquote Saint Potter, the Mudbloods\rquote  friend,\rquote  said Malfoy slowly. \lquote He\rquote s another one with no proper wizard feeling, or he wouldn\rquote t go around with that jumped-up Granger Mudblood. And people think }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 
\ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 he\rquote s}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Slytherin\rquote s heir!\rquote 
\par Harry and Ron waited with bated breath: Malfoy was surely seconds away from telling them it was him. But then \endash 
\par \lquote I }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 wish}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  I knew who it }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 is,\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  said Malfoy petulantly. \lquote I could help them.\rquote 
\par Ron\rquote s jaw dropped so that Crabbe\rquote s face looked even more gormless than usual. Fortunately, Malfoy didn\rquote t notice, and Harry, thinking fast, said, \lquote You must have some idea who\rquote s behind it all ...\rquote 
\par \lquote You know I haven\rquote t, Goyle, how many times do I have to tell you?\rquote  snapped Malfoy. \lquote And father won\rquote t tell me }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 anything}{\rtlch\fcs1 
\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
 about the last time the Chamber was opened, either. Of course, it was fifty years ago, so it was before his time, but he knows all about it, and he says that it was all kept quiet and it\rquote ll look suspicio
us if I know too much about it. But I know one thing: last time the Chamber of Secrets was opened, a Mudblood }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 died.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  So I bet it\rquote s only a matter of time before one of them\rquote s killed this time ... I hope it\rquote s Granger,\rquote  he said with relish.
\par Ron was clenching Crabbe\rquote s gigantic fists. Feeling that it would be a bit of a give-away if Ron punched Malfoy, Harry shot him a warning look and said, \lquote D\rquote you know if the person who opened the Chamber last time was caught?\rquote 

\par \lquote Oh, yeah ... whoever it was was expelled,\rquote  said Malfoy. \lquote They\rquote re probably still in Azkaban.\rquote 
\par \lquote Azkaban?\rquote  said Harry, puzzled.
\par \lquote Azkaban \endash  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 the wizard prison,}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Goyle,\rquote 
 said Malfoy, looking at him in disbelief. \lquote Honestly, if you were any slower, you\rquote d be going backwards.\rquote 
\par He shifted restlessly in his chair and said, \lquote Father says to keep my head down and let the heir of Slytherin get on with it. He says the school needs ridding of all the Mudblood filth, but not to get mixed up in it. Of course, he\rquote 
s got a lot on his plate at the moment. You know the Ministry of Magic raided our Manor last week?\rquote 
\par Harry tried to force Goyle\rquote s dull face into a look of concern.
\par \lquote Yeah ...\rquote  said Malfoy. \lquote Luckily, they didn\rquote t find much. Father\rquote s got some }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 very}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  valuable Dark Arts stuff. But luckily, we\rquote ve got our own secret chamber under the drawing-room floor \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote Ho!\rquote  said Ron.
\par Malfoy looked at him. So did Harry. Ron blushed. Even his hair was turning red. His nose was also slowly lengthening \endash  their hour was up. Ron was turning back into himself, and from the look of horror he was suddenly giving Harry, he must be, too.

\par They both jumped to their feet.
\par \lquote Medicine for my stomach,\rquote  Ron grunted, and without further ado they sprinted the length of the Slytherin common room, hurled themselves at the stone wall and dashed up the passage, hoping against hope that Malfoy hadn\rquote 
t noticed anything. Harry could feel his feet slipping around in Goyle\rquote s huge shoes and had to hoist up his robes as he shrank; they crashed up the steps into the dark Entrance Hall, which was full of a muffled pounding coming 
from the cupboard where they\rquote d locked Crabbe and Goyle. Leaving their shoes outside the cupboard door, they sprint\-ed in their socks up the marble staircase towards Moaning Myrtle\rquote s bathroom.
\par \lquote Well, it wasn\rquote t a complete waste of time,\rquote  Ron panted, closing the bathroom door behind them. \lquote I know we still haven\rquote t found out who\rquote s doing the attacks, but I\rquote 
m going to write to Dad tomorrow and tell him to check under the Malfoys\rquote  drawing room.\rquote 
\par Harry checked his face in the cracked mirror. He was back to normal. He put his glasses on as Ron hammered on the door of Hermione\rquote s cubicle.
\par \lquote Hermione, come out, we\rquote ve got loads to tell you \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote Go away!\rquote  Hermione squeaked.
\par Harry and Ron looked at each other.
\par \lquote What\rquote s the matter?\rquote  said Ron. \lquote You must be back to normal by now, we are ...\rquote 
\par But Moaning Myrtle glided suddenly through the cubicle door. Harry had never seen her looking so happy.
\par \lquote Ooooooh, wait till you see,\rquote  she said. \lquote It\rquote s }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 awful!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par They heard the lock slide back and Hermione emerged, sob\-bing, her robes pulled up over her head.
\par \lquote What\rquote s up?\rquote  said Ron uncertainly. \lquote Have you still got Millicent\rquote s nose or something?\rquote 
\par Hermione let her robes fall and Ron backed into the sink.
\par Her face was covered in black fur. Her eyes had gone yellow and there were long pointed ears poking through her hair.
\par \lquote It was a c-cat hair!\rquote  she howled. \lquote M-Millicent Bulstrode m-must have a cat! And the P-Potion isn\rquote t supposed to be used for animal transformations!\rquote 
\par \lquote Uh oh,\rquote  said Ron.
\par \lquote You\rquote ll be teased something }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 dreadful,\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  said Myrtle happily.

\par \lquote It\rquote s OK, Hermione,\rquote  said Harry quickly. \lquote We\rquote ll take you up to the hospital wing. Madam Pomfrey never asks too many questions ...\rquote 
\par It took a long time to persuade Hermione to leave the bath\-room. Moaning Myrtle sped them on their way with a hearty guffaw.
\par \lquote Wait till everyone finds out you\rquote ve got a }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 tail!\rquote 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \page 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \emdash  CHAPTER THIRTEEN \emdash 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sa280\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs56 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs56\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 The Very Secret Diary
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sa280\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
Hermione remained in the hospital wing for several weeks. There was a flurry of rumour about her disappearance when the rest of the school arrived back from their
 Christmas holidays, because of course everyone thought that she had been attacked. So many stu\-dents filed past the hospital wing trying to catch a glimpse of her that Madam Pomfrey took out her curtains again and placed them around Hermione\rquote 
s bed, to spare her the shame of being seen with a furry face.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
Harry and Ron went to visit her every evening. When the new term started, they brought her each day\rquote s homework.
\par \lquote If I\rquote d sprouted whiskers, I\rquote d take a break from work,\rquote  said Ron, tipping a stack of books onto Hermione\rquote s bedside table one evening.
\par \lquote Don\rquote t be silly, Ron, I\rquote ve got to keep up,\rquote  said Hermione briskly. Her spirits were greatly improved by the fact that all the hair had gone from her face and her eyes were turning slowly back to brown. \lquote I don\rquote 
t suppose you\rquote ve got any new leads?\rquote  she added in a whisper, so that Madam Pomfrey couldn\rquote t hear her.
\par \lquote Nothing,\rquote  said Harry gloomily.
\par \lquote I was so }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 sure}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  it was Malfoy,\rquote 
 said Ron, for about the hundredth time.
\par \lquote What\rquote s that?\rquote  asked Harry, pointing to something gold sticking out from under Hermione\rquote s pillow.
\par \lquote Just a Get Well card,\rquote  said Hermione hastily, trying to poke it out of sight, but Ron was too quick for her. He pulled it out, flicked it open and read aloud:
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote To Miss Granger, wishing you a speedy recovery, from your con\-
cerned teacher, Professor Gilderoy Lockhart, Order of Merlin, Third Class, Honorary Member of the Dark Force Defence League and five times winner of }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Witch Weekly}{
\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \rquote s Most-Charming-Smile Award.\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par Ron looked up at Hermione, disgusted.
\par \lquote You sleep with this under your }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 pillow?\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par But Hermione was spared answering by Madam Pomfrey sweeping over with her evening dose of medicine.
\par \lquote Is Lockhart the smarmiest bloke you\rquote ve ever met, or what?\rquote  Ron said to Harry as they left the dormitory and started up the stairs tow
ards Gryffindor Tower. Snape had given them so much homework, Harry thought he was likely to be in the sixth year before he finished it. Ron was just saying he wished he had asked Hermione how many rat tails you were supposed to add to a Hair-Raising Poti
on, when an angry outburst from the floor above reached their ears.
\par \lquote That\rquote s Filch,\rquote  Harry muttered, as they hurried up the stairs and paused, out of sight, listening hard.
\par \lquote You don\rquote t think someone else\rquote s been attacked?\rquote  said Ron tensely.
\par They stood still, their heads inclined towards Filch\rquote s voice, which sounded quite hysterical.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote ... even more work for me! Mopping all night, like I haven\rquote t got enough to do! No, this is the final straw, I\rquote m going to Dumbledore ...\rquote }
{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par His footsteps receded and they heard a distant door slam.
\par They poked their heads around the corner. Filch had clearly been manning his usual lookout post: they were once again on the spot where Mrs Norris had been attacked. They saw at a glance what Filch had been shouting about.
 A great flood of water stretched over half the corridor, and it looked as though it was still seeping from under the door of Moaning Myrtle\rquote s bathroom. Now Filch had stopped shouting, they could hear Myrtle\rquote 
s wails echoing off the bathroom walls.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Now}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  what\rquote s up with her?\rquote  said Ron.
\par \lquote Let\rquote s go and see,\rquote  said Harry, and holding their robes over their ankles they stepped through the great wash of water to the door bearing its \lquote Out of Order\rquote  sign, ignored it as always, and entered.
\par Moaning Myrtle was crying, if
 possible, louder and harder than ever before. She seemed to be hiding down her usual toilet. It was dark in the bathroom, because the candles had been extinguished in the great rush of water that had left both walls and floor soak\-ing wet.
\par \lquote What\rquote s up, Myrtle?\rquote  said Harry.
\par \lquote Who\rquote s that?\rquote  glugged Myrtle miserably. \lquote Come to throw some\-thing else at me?\rquote 
\par Harry waded across to her cubicle and said, \lquote Why would I throw something at you?\rquote 
\par \lquote Don\rquote t ask me,\rquote  Myrtle shouted, emerging with a wave of yet more water, which splashed onto the already sopping floor. \lquote Here I am, minding my own business, and someone thinks it\rquote s funny to throw a book at me ...\rquote 

\par \lquote But it can\rquote t hurt you if someone throws something at you,\rquote  said Harry, reasonably. \lquote I mean, it\rquote d just go right through you, wouldn\rquote t it?\rquote 
\par He had said the wrong thing. Myrtle puffed herself up and shrieked, \lquote Let\rquote s all throw books at Myrtle, because }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 she}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  can\rquote t feel it! Ten points if you can get it through her stomach! Fifty points if it goes through her head! Well, ha ha ha! What a lovely game, I }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 don\rquote t}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  think!\rquote 
\par \lquote Who threw it at you, anyway?\rquote  asked Harry.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote I}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  don\rquote 
t know ... I was just sitting in the U-bend, thinking about death, and it fell right through the top of my head,\rquote  said Myrtle, glaring at them. \lquote It\rquote s over there, it got washed out.\rquote 
\par Harry and Ron looked under the sink, where Myrtle was point\-ing. A small, thin book lay there. It had a shabby black cover and was as wet as everything else in the bathroom. Harry stepped for\-ward to pick it up, but Ron suddenly flung out an a
rm to hold him back.
\par \lquote What?\rquote  said Harry.
\par \lquote Are you mad?\rquote  said Ron. \lquote It could be dangerous.\rquote 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Dangerous?\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  said Harry, laughing. \lquote 
Come off it, how could it be dangerous?\rquote 
\par \lquote You\rquote d be surprised,\rquote  said Ron, who was looking apprehensively at the book. \lquote Some of the books the Ministry\rquote s confiscated \endash  Dad\rquote s told me \endash 
 there was one that burned your eyes out. And everyone who read }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Sonnets of a Sorcerer}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  spoke in limericks for the rest of their lives. And some old witch in Bath had a book that you could }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
never stop reading!}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  You just had to wander around with your nose in it, trying to do everything one-handed. And \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote All right, I\rquote ve got the point,\rquote  said Harry.
\par The little book lay on the floor, nondescript and soggy.
\par \lquote Well, we won\rquote t find out unless we look at it,\rquote  he said, and he ducked round Ron and picked it off the floor.
\par Harry saw at once that it was a diary, and the faded year on the cover told him it was fifty years old. He opened it eagerly. On the first page he could just make out the name \lquote T. M. Riddle\rquote  in smudged ink.
\par \lquote Hang on,\rquote  said Ron, who had approached cautiously and was looking over Harry\rquote s shoulder. \lquote I know that name ... T. M. Riddle got an award for special services to the school fifty years ago.\rquote 
\par \lquote How on earth d\rquote you know that?\rquote  said Harry in amazement.
\par \lquote Because Filch made me polish his shield about fifty times in detention,\rquote  said Ron resentfully. \lquote That was the one I burped slugs all over. If you\rquote d wiped slime off a name for an hour, you\rquote d remember it, too.\rquote 

\par Harry peeled the wet pages apart. They were completely blank. There wasn\rquote t the faintest trace of writing on any of them, not even \lquote Auntie Mabel\rquote s birthday\rquote , or \lquote dentist, half past three\rquote .
\par \lquote He never wrote in it,\rquote  said Harry, disappointed.
\par \lquote I wonder why someone wanted to flush it away?\rquote  said Ron curiously.
\par Harry turned to the back cover of the book and saw the printed name of a newsagent\rquote s in Vauxhall Road, London.
\par \lquote He must\rquote ve been Muggle-born,\rquote  said Harry thoughtfully, \lquote to have bought a diary from Vauxhall Road ...\rquote 
\par \lquote Well, it\rquote s not much use to you,\rquote  said Ron. He dropped his voice. \lquote Fifty points if you can get it through Myrtle\rquote s nose.\rquote 
\par Harry, however, pocketed it.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 *
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
Hermione left the hospital wing, de-whiskered, tail-less and fur-free, at the beginning of February. On her first evening back in Gryffindor Tower, Harry showed her T. M. Riddle\rquote s diary and told her the story of how they had found it.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Oooh, it might have hidden powers,\rquote  said Hermione enthusias\-
tically, taking the diary and looking at it closely.
\par \lquote If it has, it\rquote s hiding them very well,\rquote  said Ron. \lquote Maybe it\rquote s shy. I don\rquote t know why you don\rquote t chuck it, Harry.\rquote 
\par \lquote I wish I knew why someone }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 did}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  try to chuck it,\rquote  said Harry. 
\lquote I wouldn\rquote t mind knowing how Riddle got an award for special ser\-vices to Hogwarts, either.\rquote 
\par \lquote Could\rquote ve been anything,\rquote  said Ron. \lquote Maybe he got thirty O.W.Ls or saved a teacher from the giant squid. Maybe he murdered Myrtle, that would\rquote ve done everyone a favour ...\rquote 
\par But Harry could tell from the arrested look on Hermione\rquote s face that she was thinking what he was thinking.
\par \lquote What?\rquote  said Ron, looking from one to the other.
\par \lquote Well, the Chamber of Secrets was opened fifty years ago, wasn\rquote t it?\rquote  he said. \lquote That\rquote s what Malfoy said.\rquote 
\par \lquote Yeah ...\rquote  said Ron slowly.
\par \lquote And }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 this diary}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  is fifty years old,\rquote 
 said Hermione, tapping it excitedly.
\par \lquote So?\rquote 
\par \lquote Oh, Ron, wake up,\rquote  snapped Hermione. \lquote We know the person who opened the Chamber last time was expelled }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 fifty years ago.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 
\ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  We know T. M. Riddle got an award for special services to the school }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 fifty years ago.}{\rtlch\fcs1 
\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Well, what if Riddle got his special award for }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 catching the heir of Slytherin?}{\rtlch\fcs1 
\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  His diary would probably tell us everything: where the Chamber is, and how to open it, and what sort of creature lives in it. The person who\rquote 
s behind the attacks this time wouldn\rquote t want that lying around, would they?\rquote 
\par \lquote That\rquote s a }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 brilliant}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  theory, Hermione,\rquote  said Ron, \lquote 
with just one tiny little flaw. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 There\rquote s nothing written in his diary.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\rquote 
\par But Hermione was pulling her wand out of her bag.
\par \lquote It might be invisible ink!\rquote  she whispered.
\par She tapped the diary three times and said, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Aparecium!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par Nothing happened. Undaunted, Hermione shoved her hand back into her bag and pulled out what appeared to be a bright red eraser.
\par \lquote It\rquote s a Revealer, I got it in Diagon Alley,\rquote  she said.
\par She rubbed hard on \lquote January the first\rquote . Nothing happened.
\par \lquote I\rquote m telling you, there\rquote s nothing to find in there,\rquote  said Ron. \lquote Riddle just got a diary for Christmas and couldn\rquote t be bothered filling it in.\rquote 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 *
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Harry couldn\rquote t explain, even to himself, why he didn\rquote t just throw Riddle\rquote 
s diary away. The fact was that even though he }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 knew}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  t
he diary was blank, he kept absent-mindedly picking it up and turn\-
ing the pages, as though it was a story he wanted to finish. And while Harry was sure he had never heard the name T. M. Riddle before, it still seemed to mean something to him, almost as though Riddle was a friend he\rquote 
d had when he was very small, and half-forgotten. But this was absurd. He\rquote d never had friends before Hogwarts, Dudley had made sure of that.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Nevertheless, Harry was determined to find out more about Riddle, so, next day at break
, he headed for the trophy room to examine Riddle\rquote s special award, accompanied by an interested Hermione and a thoroughly unconvinced Ron, who told them he\rquote d seen enough of the trophy room to last him a lifetime.
\par Riddle\rquote s burnished gold shield was tucked away in a corner cab\-inet. It didn\rquote t carry details of why it had been given to him (\lquote Good thing, too, or it\rquote d be even bigger and I\rquote d still be polishing it,\rquote 
 said Ron). However, they did find Riddle\rquote s name on an old Medal for Magical Merit, and on a list of old Head Boys.
\par \lquote He sounds like Percy,\rquote  said Ron, wrinkling his nose in disgust. \lquote Prefect, Head Boy \endash  probably top of every class.\rquote 
\par \lquote You say that like it\rquote s a bad thing,\rquote  said Hermione, in a slightly hurt voice.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 *
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 The sun had now begun to shine weakly on Hog
warts again. Inside the castle, the mood had grown more hopeful. There had been no more attacks since those on Justin and Nearly Headless Nick, and Madam Pomfrey was pleased to report that the Mandrakes were becoming moody and secretive, meaning that they
 were fast leaving childhood.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote The moment their acne clears up, they\rquote ll be ready for re-potting again,
\rquote  Harry heard her telling Filch kindly one afternoon. \lquote And after that, it won\rquote t be long until we\rquote re cutting them up and stewing them. You\rquote ll have Mrs Norris back in no time.\rquote 
\par Perhaps the heir of Slytherin had lost his or her nerve, thought Harry. It must be getting riskier and riskier to open the Chamber of Secrets, with the school so alert and suspicious. Perhaps the monster, whatever it was, was even now s
ettling itself down to hibernate for another fifty years ...
\par Ernie Macmillan of Hufflepuff didn\rquote t take this cheerful view. He was still convinced that Harry was the guilty one, that he had \lquote given himself away\rquote  at the Duelling Club. Peeves wasn\rquote t helping ma
tters: he kept popping up in the crowded corridors singing \lquote Oh Potter, you rotter ...\rquote , now with a dance-routine to match.
\par Gilderoy Lockhart seemed to think he himself had made the attacks stop. Harry overheard him telling Professor McGonagall so while the Gryffindors were lining up for Transfiguration.
\par \lquote I don\rquote t think there\rquote ll be any more trouble, Minerva,\rquote  he said, tapping his nose knowingly and winking. \lquote I think the Chamber has been locked for good this time. The culprit must have known it was only a matt
er of time before I caught them. Rather sensible to stop now, before I came down hard on them.
\par \lquote You know, what the school needs now is a morale-booster. Wash away the memories of last term! I won\rquote t say any more just now, but I think I know just the thing ...\rquote 
\par He tapped his nose again and strode off.
\par Lockhart\rquote s idea of a morale-booster became clear at breakfast time on February the fourteenth. Harry hadn\rquote t had much sleep because of a late-running Quidditch practice the night before, and he hurried down to th
e Great Hall slightly late. He thought, for a moment, that he\rquote d walked through the wrong doors.
\par The walls were all covered with large, lurid pink flowers. Worse still, heart-shaped confetti was falling from the pale blue ceiling. Harry went over to the Gry
ffindor table, where Ron was sitting looking sickened, and Hermione seemed to have come over rather giggly.
\par \lquote What\rquote s going on?\rquote  Harry asked them, sitting down, and wiping confetti off his bacon.
\par Ron pointed to the teachers\rquote  table, apparently too disgusted to speak. Lockhart, wearing lurid pink robes to match the decora\-
tions, was waving for silence. The teachers on either side of him were looking stony-faced. From where he sat, Harry could see a muscle going in Professor McGonagall\rquote s cheek. Snape looked as t
hough someone had just fed him a large beaker of Skele-Gro.
\par \lquote Happy Valentine\rquote s Day!\rquote  Lockhart shouted. \lquote And may I thank the forty-six people who have so far sent me cards! Yes, I have taken the liberty of arranging this little surprise for you all \endash  and it doesn\rquote 
t end here!\rquote 
\par Lockhart clapped his hands and through the doors to the Entrance Hall marched a dozen surly-looking dwarfs. Not just any dwarfs, however. Lockhart had them all wearing golden wings and carrying harps.
\par \lquote My friendly, card-carrying cupids!\rquote  beamed Lockhart. \lquote They will be roving around the school today delivering your Valentines! And the fun doesn\rquote t stop here! I\rquote 
m sure my colleagues will want to enter into the spirit of the occasion! Why not ask Professor Snape to show you how to whip up a Love Potion! And while you\rquote re at it, Professor Flitwick knows more about Entrancing Enchantments than any wizard I
\rquote ve ever met, the sly old dog!\rquote 
\par Professor Flitwick buried his face in his hands. Snape was look\-ing as though the first person to ask him for a Love Potion would be force-fed poison.
\par \lquote Please, Hermione, tell me you weren\rquote t one of the forty-six,\rquote  said Ron, as they left the Great Hall for their first lesson. Hermione suddenly became very interested in searching her bag for her timetable and didn\rquote t answer.

\par All day long, the dwarfs kept barging into their classes to deliver Valentines, to the annoyance of the teachers, and late that afternoon, as the Gryffindors were walking upstairs for Charms, one of them caught up with Harry.
\par \lquote Oy, you! \rquote Arry Potter!\rquote  shouted a particularly grim-looking dwarf, elbowing people out of the way to get to Harry.
\par Hot all over at the thought of being given a Valentine in front of a queue of first-years, which happened to include Ginny Weasley, Harry tried to escape. The dwarf, however, cut his way through the crowd by kicking people\rquote 
s shins, and reached him before he\rquote d gone two paces.
\par \lquote I\rquote ve got a musical message to deliver to \rquote Arry Potter in person,\rquote  he said, twanging his harp in a threatening sort of way.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Not here,\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Harry hissed, trying to escape.
\par \lquote Stay }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 still!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  grunted the dwarf, grabbing hold of Harry\rquote 
s bag and pulling him back.
\par \lquote Let me go!\rquote  Harry snarled, tugging.
\par With a loud ripping noise, his bag split in two. His books, wand, parchment and quill spilled onto the floor and his ink bot\-tle smashed over the lot.
\par Harry scrambled around, trying to pick it all up before the dwarf started singing, causing something of a hold-up in the cor\-ridor.
\par \lquote What\rquote s going on here?\rquote  came the cold, drawling voice of Draco Malfoy. Harry started stuffing everything feverishly into his ripped bag, desperate to get away before Malfoy could hear his musical Valentine.
\par \lquote What\rquote s all this commotion?\rquote  said another familiar voice, as Percy Weasley arrived.
\par Losing his head, Harry tried to make a run for it, but the dwarf seized him around the knees and brought him crashing to the floor.
\par \lquote Right,\rquote  he said, sitting on Harry\rquote s ankles, \lquote here is your singing Valentine:
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote His eyes are as green as afresh pickled toad,}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 His hair is as dark as a blackboard.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 I wish he was mine, he\rquote s really divine,}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 The hero who conquered the Dark Lord.\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
Harry would have given all the gold in Gringotts to evaporate on the spot. Trying valiantly to laugh along with everyone else, he got up, his feet numb from the weight of the dw
arf, as Percy Weasley did his best to disperse the crowd, some of whom were crying with mirth.
\par \lquote Off you go, off you go, the bell rang five minutes ago, off to class, now,\rquote  he said, shooing some of the younger students away. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote And}{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  you, Malfoy.\rquote 
\par Harry, glancing over, saw Malfoy stoop and snatch up some\-thing. Leering, he showed it to Crabbe and Goyle, and Harry realised that he\rquote d got Riddle\rquote s diary.
\par \lquote Give that back,\rquote  said Harry quietly.
\par \lquote Wonder what Potter\rquote s written in this?\rquote  said Malfoy, who obvi\-ously hadn\rquote t noticed the year on the cover, and thought he had Harry\rquote s own diary. A hush fell over the onlookers. Ginny was star\-
ing from the diary to Harry, looking terrified.
\par \lquote Hand it over, Malfoy,\rquote  said Percy sternly.
\par \lquote When I\rquote ve had a look,\rquote  said Malfoy, waving the diary tauntingly at Harry.
\par Percy said, \lquote As a school Prefect \endash \rquote , but Harry had lost his tem\-per. He pulled out his wand and shouted, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Expelliarmus!\rquote }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  and just as Snape had disarmed Lockhart, so Malfoy found the diary shoot\-ing out of his hand into the air. Ron, grinning broadly, caught it.
\par \lquote Harry!\rquote  said Percy loudly. \lquote No magic in the corridors. I\rquote ll have to report this, you know!\rquote 
\par But Harry didn\rquote t care, he\rquote d got one over on Malfoy, and that was worth five points from Gryffindor any day. Malfoy was looking furious, and as Ginny passed him to enter her classroom, he yelled spitefully after her, \lquote I don\rquote 
t think Potter liked your Valentine much!\rquote 
\par Ginny covered her face with her hands and ran into class. Snarling, Ron pulled out his wand, too, but Harry pulled him away. Ron didn\rquote t need to spend the whole of Charms belching slugs.
\par It wasn\rquote t until they had reached Professor Flitwick\rquote s class that Harry noticed something rather odd about Riddle\rquote s diary. All his other books were drenched in scarlet ink. The diary
, however, was as clean as it had been before the ink bottle had smashed all over it. He tried to point this out to Ron, but Ron was having trouble with his wand again; large purple bubbles were blossoming out of the end, and he wasn\rquote 
t much interested in anything else.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 *
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Harry went to bed before anyone else in his dormitory that night. This was partly because he didn
\rquote t think he could stand Fred and George singing, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote His eyes are as green as a fresh pickled toad\rquote ,}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  one more time, and partly because he wanted to examine Riddle\rquote s diary again, and knew that Ron thought he was wasting his time.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
Harry sat on his four-poster and flicked through the blank pages, not one of which had a trace of scarlet ink on it. Then he pulled a new bottle out of his bedside cabinet, dipped his quill into it, and dropped a blot onto the first page of the diary.

\par The ink shone brightly on the paper for a second and then, as though it was being sucked into the page, vanished. Excited, Harry loaded up his quill a second time and wrote, \lquote My name is Harry Potter.\rquote 
\par The words shone momentarily on the page and they too sank without trace. Then, at last, something happened.
\par Oozing back out of the page, in his very own ink, came words Harry had never written.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Hello, Harry Potter. My name is Tom Riddle. How did you come by my diary?\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par These words, too, faded away, but not before Harry had started to scribble back.
\par \lquote Someone tried to flush it down a toilet.\rquote 
\par He waited eagerly for Riddle\rquote s reply.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Lucky that I recorded my memories in some more lasting way than ink. But I always knew that there would be those who would not want this diary read.\rquote }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par \lquote What do you mean?\rquote  Harry scrawled, blotting the page in his excitement.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote I mean that this diary holds memories of terrible things. Things which were covered up. Things which happened at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.
\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par \lquote That\rquote s where I am now,\rquote  Harry wrote quickly. \lquote I\rquote m at Hogwarts, and horrible stuff\rquote s been happening. Do you know anything about the Chamber of Secrets?\rquote 
\par His heart was hammering. Riddle\rquote s reply came quickly, his writing becoming untidier, as though he was hurrying to tell all he knew.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Of course I know about the Chamber of Secrets. In my day, they told us it was a legend, that it did not exist. But this was a lie. In my fifth year, the Ch
amber was opened and the monster attacked several students, finally killing one. I caught the person who\rquote 
d opened the Chamber and he was expelled. But the Headmaster, Professor Dippet, ashamed that such a thing had happened at Hogwarts, forbade me to tell 
the truth. A story was given out that the girl had died in a freak accident. They gave me a nice, shiny, engraved trophy for my trouble and warned me to keep my mouth shut. But I knew it could happen again. The monster lived on, and the one who had the po
wer to release it was not imprisoned.\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par Harry nearly upset his ink bottle in his hurry to write back.
\par \lquote It\rquote s happening again now. There have been three attacks and no one seems to know who\rquote s behind them. Who was it last time?\rquote 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote I can show you, if you like,\rquote  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 came Riddle\rquote s reply. }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote You don\rquote t have to take my word for it. I can take you inside my memory of the night when I caught him.\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par Harry hesitated, his quill suspended over the diary. What did Riddle mean? How could he be taken inside somebody else\rquote 
s memory? He glanced nervously at the door to the dormitory, which was growing dark. When he looked back at the diary, he saw fresh words forming.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Let me show you.\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par Harry paused for a fraction of a second and then wrote two let\-ters.
\par \lquote OK.\rquote 
\par The pages of the diary began to blow as though caught in a high wind, stopping halfway through the month of June. Mouth hanging open, Harry saw that the little square for June the thir\-
teenth seemed to have turned into a minuscule television screen. His hands trembling slightly, he raised the book to press his eye against the little window, and before he knew what was happen\-
ing, he was tilting forwards; the window was widening, he felt his body leave his bed and he was pitched headfirst through the opening in the page, into a whirl of colour and shadow.
\par He felt his feet hit solid ground, and stood, shaking, as the blurred shapes around him came suddenly into focus.
\par He knew immediately where he was. This circular room with the sleeping portraits was Dumbledore\rquote s office \endash  but it wasn\rquote 
t Dumbledore who was sitting behind the desk. A wizened, frail-looking wizard, bald except for a few wisps of white hair, was reading a letter by candlelight. Harry had never seen this man before.
\par \lquote I\rquote m sorry,\rquote  he said shakily, \lquote I didn\rquote t mean to butt in ...\rquote 
\par But the wizard didn\rquote t look up. He continued to read, frowning slightly. Harry drew nearer to his desk and stammered, \lquote Er \endash  I\rquote ll just go, shall I?\rquote 
\par Still the wizard ignored him. He didn\rquote t seem even to have heard him. Thinking that the wizard might be deaf, Harry raised his voice.
\par \lquote Sorry I disturbed you, I\rquote ll go now,\rquote  he half-shouted.
\par The wizard folded up the letter with a sigh, stood up, walked past Harry without glancing at him and went to draw the curtains at his window.
\par The sky outside the window was ruby red; it seemed to be sun\-set. The wizard went back to the desk, sat down and twiddled his thumbs, watching the door.
\par Harry looked around the office. No Fawkes the phoenix; no whirring silver contraptions. This was Hogwarts as Riddle had known
 it, meaning that this unknown wizard was Headmaster, not Dumbledore, and he, Harry, was little more than a phantom, completely invisible to the people of fifty years ago.
\par There was a knock on the office door.
\par \lquote Enter,\rquote  said the old wizard in a feeble voice.
\par A boy of about sixteen entered, taking off his pointed hat. A sil\-ver Prefect\rquote s badge was glinting on his chest. He was much taller than Harry, but he, too, had jet-black hair.
\par \lquote Ah, Riddle,\rquote  said the Headmaster.
\par \lquote You wanted to see me, Professor Dippet?\rquote  said Riddle. He looked nervous.
\par \lquote Sit down,\rquote  said Dippet. \lquote I\rquote ve just been reading the letter you sent me.\rquote 
\par \lquote Oh,\rquote  said Riddle. He sat down, gripping his hands together very tightly.
\par \lquote My dear boy,\rquote  said Dippet kindly, \lquote I cannot possibly let you stay at school over the summer. Surely you want to go home for the holidays?\rquote 
\par \lquote No,\rquote  said Riddle at once, \lquote I\rquote d much rather stay at Hogwarts than go back to that \endash  to that \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote You live in a Muggle orphanage during the holidays, I believe?\rquote  said Dippet curiously.
\par \lquote Yes, sir,\rquote  said Riddle, reddening slightly.
\par \lquote You are Muggle-born?\rquote 
\par \lquote Half-blood, sir,\rquote  said Riddle. \lquote Muggle father, witch mother.\rquote 
\par \lquote And are both your parents \endash ?\rquote 
\par \lquote My mother died just after I was born, sir. They told me at the orphanage she lived just long enough to name me: Tom after my father, Marvolo after my grandfather.\rquote 
\par Dippet clucked his tongue sympathetically.
\par \lquote The thing is, Tom,\rquote  he sighed, \lquote special arrangements might have been made for you, but in the current circumstances ...\rquote 
\par \lquote You mean all these attacks, sir?\rquote  said Riddle, and Harry\rquote s heart leapt, and he moved closer, scared of missing anything.
\par \lquote Precisely,\rquote  said the Headmaster. \lquote My dear boy, you must see 
how foolish it would be of me to allow you to remain at the castle when term ends. Particularly in the light of the recent tragedy ... the death of that poor little girl ... You will be safer by far at your orphanage. As a matter of fact, the Ministry of 
Magic is even now talking about closing the school. We are no nearer locating the \endash  er \endash  source of all this unpleasantness ...\rquote 
\par Riddle\rquote s eyes had widened.
\par \lquote Sir \endash  if the person was caught ... If it all stopped ...\rquote 
\par \lquote What do you mean?\rquote  said Dippet, with a squeak in his voice, sitting up in his chair. \lquote Riddle, do you mean you know something about these attacks?\rquote 
\par \lquote No, sir,\rquote  said Riddle quickly.
\par But Harry was sure it was the same sort of \lquote no\rquote  that he himself had given Dumbledore.
\par Dippet sank back, looking faintly disappointed.
\par \lquote You may go, Tom ...\rquote 
\par Riddle slid off his chair and stumped out of the room. Harry followed him.
\par Down the moving spiral staircase they went, emerging next to the gargoyle in the darkening corridor. Riddle stopped, and so did Harry, watching 
him. Harry could tell that Riddle was doing some serious thinking. He was biting his lip, his forehead furrowed.
\par Then, as though he had suddenly reached a decision, he hur\-ried off, Harry gliding noiselessly behind him. They didn\rquote t see another person until
 they reached the Entrance Hall, when a tall wizard with long, sweeping auburn hair and beard called to Riddle from the marble staircase.
\par \lquote What are you doing, wandering around this late, Tom?\rquote 
\par Harry gaped at the wizard. He was none other than a fifty-year-younger Dumbledore.
\par \lquote I had to see the Headmaster, sir,\rquote  said Riddle.
\par \lquote Well, hurry off to bed,\rquote  said Dumbledore, giving Riddle exactly the kind of penetrating stare Harry knew so well. \lquote Best not to roam the corridors these days. Not since ...\rquote 
\par He sighed heavily, bade Riddle goodnight and strode off. Riddle watched him out of sight and then, moving quickly, headed straight down the stone steps to the dungeons, with Harry in hot pursuit.
\par But to Harry\rquote s disappointment, Riddle led him not into a hid\-den passageway or a secret tunnel but the very dungeon in which Harry had Potions with Snape. The torches hadn\rquote 
t been lit, and when Riddle pushed the door almost closed, Harry could only just see Riddle, standing stock-still by the door, watching the pas\-sage outside.
\par It felt to Harry that they were there for at least an hour. All he could see was the figure of Riddle at the door, staring through the crack, waiting like a statue. And just when Harry had stopped feeling expectant and tense, and started wishing he could 
return to the present, he heard something move beyond the door.
\par Someone was creeping along the passage. He heard whoever it was pass the dungeon where he and Riddle were hidden. Riddle, quiet as a shadow, edged through the door and followed, Harry tiptoeing behind him, forgetting that he couldn\rquote t be heard.

\par For perhaps five minutes they followed the footsteps, until Riddle stopped suddenly, his head inclined in the direction of new noises. Harry heard a door creak open, and then someone speak\-ing in a hoarse whisper.
\par \lquote C\rquote mon ... gotta get yeh outta here ... c\rquote mon now ... in the box ...\rquote 
\par There was something familiar about that voice.
\par Riddle suddenly jumped around the corner. Harry stepped out behind him. He could see the dark outline of a huge boy who was crouching in front of an open door, a very large box next to it.
\par \lquote Evening, Rubeus,\rquote  said Riddle sharply.
\par The boy slammed the door shut and stood up.
\par \lquote What yer doin\rquote  down here, Tom?\rquote 
\par Riddle stepped closer.
\par \lquote It\rquote s all over,\rquote  he said. \lquote I\rquote m going to have to turn you in, Rubeus. They\rquote re talking about closing Hogwarts if the attacks don\rquote t stop.\rquote 
\par \lquote What d\rquote yeh \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote I don\rquote t think you meant to kill anyone. But monsters don\rquote t make good pets. I suppose you just let it out for exercise and \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote It never killed no one!\rquote  said the large boy, backing against the closed door. From behind him, Harry could hear a funny rustling and clicking.
\par \lquote Come on, Rubeus,\rquote  said Riddle, moving yet closer. \lquote The dead girl\rquote s parents will be here tomorrow. The least Hogwarts can do is make sure that the thing that killed their daughter is slaughtered ...\rquote 
\par \lquote It wasn\rquote  him!\rquote  roared the boy, his voice echoing in the dark pas\-sage. \lquote He wouldn\rquote ! He never!\rquote 
\par \lquote Stand aside,\rquote  said Riddle, drawing out his wand.
\par His spell lit the corridor wit
h a sudden flaming light. The door behind the large boy flew open with such force it knocked him into the wall opposite. And out of it came something that made Harry let out a long, piercing scream no one but he seemed to hear.
\par A vast, low-slung, hairy body and a tangle of black legs; a gleam of many eyes and a pair of razor-sharp pincers \endash 
 Riddle raised his wand again, but he was too late. The thing bowled him over as it scuttled away, tearing up the corridor and out of sight. Riddle scrambled to his feet,
 looking after it; he raised his wand, but the huge boy leapt on him, seized his wand and threw him back down, yelling, \lquote NOOOOOOO!\rquote 
\par The scene whirled, the darkness became complete, Harry felt himself falling and, with a crash, he landed spread-eagled on his four-poster in the Gryffindor dormitory, Riddle\rquote s diary lying open on his stomach.
\par Before he had had time to regain his breath, the dormitory door opened and Ron came in.
\par \lquote There you are,\rquote  he said.
\par Harry sat up. He was sweating and shaking.
\par \lquote What\rquote s up?\rquote  said Ron, looking at him with concern.
\par \lquote It was Hagrid, Ron. Hagrid opened the Chamber of Secrets fifty years ago.\rquote 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \page 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \emdash  CHAPTER FOURTEEN \emdash 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sa280\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs56 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs56\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Cornelius Fudge
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sa280\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Harry, Ron a
nd Hermione had always known that Hagrid had an unfortunate liking for large and monstrous creatures. During their first year at Hogwarts he had tried to raise a dragon in his little wooden house, and it would be a long time before they forgot the giant, 
three-headed dog he\rquote d christened \lquote Fluffy\rquote . And if, as a boy, Hagrid had heard that a monster was hidden somewhere in the castle, Harry was sure he\rquote d have gone to any lengths for a glimpse of it. He\rquote 
d probably thought it was a shame that the monster had been
 cooped up so long, and thought it deserved the chance to stretch its many legs; Harry could just imagine the thirteen-year-old Hagrid trying to fit a lead and collar on it. But he was equally certain that Hagrid would never have meant to kill anybody.

\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Harry half-wished he hadn\rquote t found out how to work Riddle\rquote 
s diary. Again and again Ron and Hermione made him recount what he\rquote d seen, until he was heartily sick of telling them and sick of the long, circular conversations that followed.
\par \lquote Riddle }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 might}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  have got the wrong person,\rquote  said Hermione. \lquote 
Maybe it was some other monster that was attacking people ...\rquote 
\par \lquote How many monsters d\rquote you think this place can hold?\rquote  Ron asked dully.
\par \lquote We always knew Hagrid had been expelled,\rquote  said Harry miser\-ably. \lquote And the attacks must\rquote ve stopped after Hagrid was kicked out. Otherwise, Riddle wouldn\rquote t have got his award.\rquote 
\par Ron tried a different tack.
\par \lquote Riddle }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 does}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  sound like Percy \endash 
 who asked him to grass on Hagrid, anyway?\rquote 
\par \lquote But the monster had }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 killed}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  someone, Ron,\rquote  said Hermione.
\par \lquote And Riddle was going to go back to some Muggle orphanage if they closed Hogwarts,\rquote  said Harry. \lquote I don\rquote t blame him for wanting to stay here ...\rquote 
\par Ron bit his lip, then said tentatively, \lquote You met Hagrid down Knockturn Alley, didn\rquote t you, Harry?\rquote 
\par \lquote He was buying a Flesh-Eating Slug Repellent,\rquote  said Harry quickly.
\par The three of them fell silent. After a long pause, Hermione voiced the knottiest question of all in a hesitant voice: \lquote Do you think we should go and }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 ask}{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Hagrid about it all?\rquote 
\par \lquote That\rquote d be a cheerful visit,\rquote  said Ron. \lquote Hello, Hagrid, tell us, have you been setting anything mad and hairy loose in the castle lately?\rquote 
\par In the end, they decided that they wouldn\rquote t say anything to Hagrid unless there was another attack, and as more and more days went by with no whisper fr
om the disembodied voice, they became hopeful that they would never need to talk to him about why he had been expelled. It was now nearly four months since Justin and Nearly Headless Nick had been Petrified, and nearly everybody seemed to think that the a
ttacker, whoever it was, had retired for good. Peeves had finally got bored of his \lquote Oh Potter, you rotter\rquote 
 song, Ernie Macmillan asked Harry quite politely to pass a bucket of leaping toadstools in Herbology one day, and in March several of the Mandrakes threw a loud and raucous party in Greenhouse Three. This made Professor Sprout very happy.
\par \lquote The moment they start trying to move into each other\rquote s pots, we\rquote ll know they\rquote re fully mature,\rquote  she told Harry. \lquote Then we\rquote ll be able to revive those poor people in the hospital wing.\rquote 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 *
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
The second-years were given something new to think about during their Easter holidays. The time had come to choose their subjects for the third year, a matter that Hermione, at least, took very seriously.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote It could affect our whole future,\rquote 
 she told Harry and Ron, as they pored over lists of new subjects, marking them with ticks.
\par \lquote I just want to give up Potions,\rquote  said Harry.
\par \lquote We can\rquote t,\rquote  said Ron gloomily. \lquote We keep all our old subjects, or I\rquote d\rquote ve ditched Defence Against the Dark Arts.\rquote 
\par \lquote But that\rquote s very important!\rquote  said Hermione, shocked.
\par \lquote Not the way Lockhart teaches it,\rquote  said Ron. \lquote I haven\rquote t learned anything from him except not to set pixies loose.\rquote 
\par Neville Longbottom had been sent letters from all the witches and wizards in his family, all giving him different advice on what to choose. Confused and worried, he sat reading the subject lists with his tongue poking out, asking people whether they thoug
ht Arithmancy sounded more difficult than Study of Ancient Runes. Dean Thomas, who, like Harry, had grown up with Muggles, ended up closing his eyes and jabbing his wand at the list, then picking the subjects it landed on. Hermione took nobody\rquote 
s advice but signed up for everything.
\par Harry smiled grimly to himself at the thought of what Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia would say if he tried to discuss his career in wizardry with them. Not that he didn\rquote t get any guidance: Percy Weasley was eager to share his experience.
\par \lquote Depends where you want to }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 go,}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Harry,\rquote  he said. \lquote It\rquote 
s never too early to think about the future, so I\rquote d recommend Divination. People say Muggle Studies is a soft option, but I personally think wizards should have a thorough understanding of the non-magical community, particularly if they\rquote 
re thinking of working in close contact with them \endash  look at my father, he has to deal with Muggle business all the time. My brother Charlie was always more of an outdoor type, so he went for Care of Magical Creatures. Play to your strengths, Harry.
\rquote 
\par But the only thing Harry felt he was really good at was Quidditch. In the end, he chose the same new subjects as Ron, feeling that if he was rubbish at them, at least he\rquote d have someone friendly to help him.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 *
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Gryffindor\rquote s 
next Quidditch match would be against Hufflepuff. Wood was insisting on team practices every night after dinner, so that Harry barely had time for anything but Quidditch and home\-
work. However, the training sessions were getting better, or at least drier, and the evening before Saturday\rquote s match, he went up to his dormitory to drop off his broomstick, feeling Gryffindor\rquote 
s chances for the Quidditch Cup had never been better.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 But his cheerful mood didn\rquote t last long. At the top of the stairs to the dormitory, he
 met Neville Longbottom, who was looking frantic.
\par \lquote Harry \endash  I don\rquote t know who did it. I just found \endash \rquote 
\par Watching Harry fearfully, Neville pushed open the door.
\par The contents of Harry\rquote s trunk had been thrown everywhere. His cloak lay ripped on the floor. The bedclothes had been pulled off his four-poster and the drawer had been pulled out of his bedside cabinet, the contents strewn over the mattress.
\par Harry walked over to the bed, open-mouthed, treading on a few loose pages of }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Travels with Trolls.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par As he and Neville pulled the blankets back onto his bed, Ron, Dean and Seamus came in. Dean swore loudly.
\par \lquote What happened, Harry?\rquote 
\par \lquote No idea,\rquote  said Harry. But Ron was examining Harry\rquote s robes. All the pockets were hanging out.
\par \lquote Someone\rquote s been looking for something,\rquote  said Ron. \lquote Is there any\-thing missing?\rquote 
\par Harry started to pick up all his things and throw them into his trunk. It was only as he threw the last of the Lockhart books back into it that he realised what wasn\rquote t there.
\par \lquote Riddle\rquote s diary\rquote s gone,\rquote  he said in an undertone to Ron.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote What?\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par Harry jerked his head towards the dormitory door and Ron followed him out. They hurried back down to the Gryffindor common room, which was half-empty, and joined Hermione, who was sitting alone, reading a book called }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Ancient Runes Made Easy.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par Hermione looked aghast at the news.
\par \lquote But \endash  only a Gryffindor could have stolen \endash  nobody else knows our password ...\rquote 
\par \lquote Exactly,\rquote  said Harry.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 *
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 They woke next day to brilliant sunshine and a light, refreshing breeze.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Perfect Quidditch conditions!\rquote 
 said Wood enthusiastically at the Gryffindor table, loading the team\rquote s plates with scrambled eggs. \lquote Harry, buck up there, you need a decent breakfast.\rquote 
\par Harry had been staring down the packed Gryffindor table, won\-dering if the new owner of Riddle\rquote s diary was right in front of his eyes. Hermione had been urging him to report the robbery, but Harry didn\rquote t like the idea. He\rquote 
d have to tell a teacher all about the diary and how many people knew why Hagrid had been expelled fifty years ago? He didn\rquote t want to be the one who brought it all up again.
\par As he left the Great Hall with Ron and Hermione to go and col\-lect his Quidditch things, another, very serious worry was added to Harry\rquote s growing list. He had just set foot on the marble staircase when he heard it yet again: }{\rtlch\fcs1 
\ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Kill this time ... let me rip ... tear ...\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par He shouted aloud and Ron and Hermione both jumped away from him in alarm.
\par \lquote The voice!\rquote  said Harry, looking over his shoulder. \lquote I just heard it again \endash  didn\rquote t you?\rquote 
\par Ron shook his head, wide-eyed. Hermione, however, clapped a hand to her forehead.
\par \lquote Harry \endash  I think I\rquote ve just understood something! I\rquote ve got to go to the library!\rquote 
\par And she sprinted away, up the stairs.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote What}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  does she understand?\rquote  said Harry distractedly, still look\-
ing around, trying to tell where the voice had come from.
\par \lquote Loads more than I do,\rquote  said Ron, shaking his head.
\par \lquote But why\rquote s she got to go to the library?\rquote 
\par \lquote Because that\rquote s what Hermione does,\rquote  said Ron, shrugging. \lquote When in doubt, go to the library.\rquote 
\par Harry stood, irresolute, trying to catch the voice again, but people were now emerging from the Great Hall behind him, talk\-ing loudly, exiting through the front doors on their way to the Quidditch pitch.
\par \lquote You\rquote d better get moving,\rquote  said Ron. \lquote It\rquote s nearly eleven \endash  the match.\rquote 
\par Harry raced up to Gryf
findor Tower, collected his Nimbus Two Thousand and joined the large crowd swarming across the grounds, but his mind was still in the castle, along with the bodiless voice, and as he pulled on his scarlet robes in the changing room, his only comfort was t
hat everyone was now outside to watch the game.
\par The teams walked onto the pitch to tumultuous applause. Oliver Wood took off for a warm-up flight around the goalposts, Madam Hooch released the balls. The Hufflepuffs, who played in canary yellow, were standi
ng in a huddle, having a last-minute discussion of tactics.
\par Harry was just mounting his broom when Professor McGonagall came half-marching, half-running across the pitch, carrying an enormous purple megaphone.
\par Harry\rquote s heart dropped like a stone.
\par \lquote This match has been cancelled,\rquote 
 Professor McGonagall called through the megaphone, addressing the packed stadium. There were boos and shouts. Oliver Wood, looking devastated, landed and ran towards Professor McGonagall without getting off his broomstick.
\par \lquote But Professor!\rquote  he shouted. \lquote We\rquote ve got to play ... the Cup ... }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Gryffindor }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 ...\rquote 
\par Professor McGonagall ignored him and continued to shout through her megaphone: \lquote All students are to make their way back to the house common rooms, where their Heads of Houses will give them further information. As quickly as you can, please!
\rquote 
\par Then she lowered the megaphone and beckoned Harry over to her.
\par \lquote Potter, I think you\rquote d better come with me ...\rquote 
\par Wondering how she could possibly suspect him this time, Harry saw Ron detach himself from the complaining crowd; he came running up to them as they set off towards the castle. To Harry\rquote s surprise, Professor McGonagall didn\rquote t object.
\par \lquote Yes, perhaps you\rquote d better come too, Weasley.\rquote 
\par Some of the students swarming around them were grumbling about the match being cancelled, others looked worried. Harry and Ron followed Professor McGonagall back into the school and up the marble staircase. But they weren\rquote t taken to anybody\rquote 
s office this time.
\par \lquote This will be a bit of a shock,\rquote  said Professor McGonagall in a surprisingly gentle voice as they approached the hospital wing. \lquote There has been another attack ... another }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 double}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  attack.\rquote 
\par Harry\rquote s insides did a horrible somersault. Professor McGonagall pushed the door open and he and Ron entered.
\par Madam Pomfrey was bending over a sixth-year girl with long curly hair. Harry recognised her as the Ravenclaw they\rquote d acciden\-tally asked for directions to the Slytherin common room. And on the bed next to her was \endash 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Hermione!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Ron groaned.
\par Hermione lay utterly still, her eyes open and glassy.
\par \lquote They were found near the library.\rquote  said Professor McGonagall. \lquote I don\rquote t suppose either of you can explain this? It was on the floor next to them ...\rquote 
\par She was holding up a small, circular mirror.
\par Harry and Ron shook their heads, both staring at Hermione.
\par \lquote I will escort you back to Gryffindor Tower,\rquote  said Professor McGonagall heavily. \lquote I need to address the students in any case.\rquote 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 *
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote All students will return to their house common rooms by six o\rquote clock in the evening.
 No student is to leave the dormitories after that time. You will be escorted to each lesson by a teacher. No student is to use the bathroom unaccompanied by a teacher. All further Quidditch training and matches are to be postponed. There will be no more 
evening activities.\rquote 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
The Gryffindors packed inside the common room listened to Professor McGonagall in silence. She rolled up the parch\-ment from which she had been reading and said in a somewhat choked voice, \lquote I need hardly add that I have rarely been so d
istressed. It is likely that the school will be closed unless the culprit behind these attacks is caught. I would urge anyone who thinks they might know anything about them to come forward.\rquote 
\par She climbed somewhat awkwardly out of the portrait hole, and the Gryffindors began talking immediately.
\par \lquote That\rquote s two Gryffindors down, not counting a Gryffindor ghost, one Ravenclaw and one Hufflepuff,\rquote  said the Weasley twins\rquote  friend Lee Jordan, counting on his fingers. \lquote Haven\rquote t }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 any}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  of the teachers noticed that the Slytherins are all safe? Isn\rquote t it }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 obvious}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  all this stuff\rquote s coming from Slytherin? The }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 heir}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  of Slytherin, the }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
monster}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  of Slytherin \endash  why don\rquote t they just chuck all the Slytherins out?\rquote  he roared, to nods and scattered applause.
\par Percy Weasley was sitting in a chair behind Lee, but for once he didn\rquote t seem keen to make his views heard. He was looking pale and stunned.
\par \lquote Percy\rquote s in shock,\rquote  George told Harry quietly. \lquote That Ravenclaw girl \endash  Penelope Clearwater \endash  she\rquote s a Prefect. I don\rquote t think he thought the monster would dare attack a }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 
\ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Prefect.\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par But Harry was only half-listening. He didn\rquote t seem to be able to get rid of the picture of Hermione, lying on the hospital bed as though carved out of stone. And if the culprit wasn\rquote t caught soon, he was looking at a lifetime back w
ith the Dursleys. Tom Riddle had turned Hagrid in because he was faced with the prospect of a Muggle orphanage if the school closed. Harry now knew exactly how he had felt.
\par \lquote What\rquote re we going to do?\rquote  said Ron quietly in Harry\rquote s ear. \lquote D\rquote you think they suspect Hagrid?\rquote 
\par \lquote We\rquote ve got to go and talk to him,\rquote  said Harry, making up his mind. \lquote I can\rquote t believe it\rquote s him this time, but if he set the monster loose last time he\rquote 
ll know how to get inside the Chamber of Secrets, and that\rquote s a start.\rquote 
\par \lquote But McGonagall said we\rquote ve got to stay in our tower unless we\rquote re in class \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote I think,\rquote  said Harry, more quietly still, \lquote it\rquote s time to get my dad\rquote s old Cloak out again.\rquote 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 *
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Harry had inherited just one thing from his father: a long and sil\-
very Invisibility Cloak. It was their only 
chance of sneaking out of the school to visit Hagrid without anyone knowing about it. They went to bed at the usual time, waited until Neville, Dean and Seamus had stopped discussing the Chamber of Secrets and finally fallen asleep, then got up, dressed a
gain, and threw the Cloak over themselves.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 The journey through the dark and deserted castle corridors wasn\rquote 
t enjoyable. Harry, who had wandered the castle at night several times before, had never seen it so crowded after sunset. Teachers, Prefects and ghost
s were marching the corridors in pairs, staring around for any unusual activity. Their Invisibility Cloak didn\rquote t stop them making any noise, and there was a par\-
ticularly tense moment when Ron stubbed his toe only yards from the spot where Snape was standing guard. Thankfully, Snape sneezed at almost exactly the moment Ron swore. It was with relief that they reached the oak front doors and eased them open.
\par It was a clear, starry night. They hurried towards the lighted windows of Hagrid\rquote s house, and pulled off the Cloak only when they were right outside his front door.
\par Seconds after they had knocked, Hagrid flung it open. They found themselves face to face, with him aiming a crossbow at them, Fang the boarhound barking loudly behind him.
\par \lquote Oh,\rquote  he said, lowering the weapon and staring at them. \lquote What\rquote re you two doin\rquote  here?\rquote 
\par \lquote What\rquote s that for?\rquote  said Harry, pointing at the crossbow as they stepped inside.
\par \lquote Nothin\rquote  ... nothin\rquote ,\rquote  Hagrid muttered. \lquote I\rquote ve bin expectin\rquote  ... doesn\rquote  matter ... Sit down ... I\rquote ll make tea ...\rquote 
\par He hardly seemed to know what he was doing. He nearly extin\-guished the fire, spilling water from the kettle on it, and then smashed the teapot with a nervous jerk of his massive hand.
\par \lquote Are you OK, Hagrid?\rquote  said Harry. \lquote Did you hear about Hermione?\rquote 
\par \lquote Oh, I heard, all righ\rquote ,\rquote  said Hagrid, a slight break in his voice.
\par He kept glancing nervously at the windows. He poured them both large mugs of boiling water (he had forgotten to add tea bags) and was just putting a slab of fruitcake on a plate, when there was a loud knock on the door.
\par Hagrid dropped the fruitcake. Harry and Ron exchanged panic-stricken looks, then threw the Invisibility Cloak back over them\-selves and retreated into a corner. Hagrid checked that they were hidden, seized his crossbow and flung open his door once more.

\par \lquote Good evening, Hagrid.\rquote 
\par It was Dumbledore. He entered, looking deadly serious, and was followed by a second, very odd-looking man.
\par The stranger was a short, portly man with rumpled grey hair and an anxious express
ion. He was wearing a strange mixture of clothes: a pin-striped suit, a scarlet tie, a long black cloak and pointed purple boots. Under his arm he carried a lime-green bowler.
\par \lquote That\rquote s Dad\rquote s boss!\rquote  Ron breathed. \lquote Cornelius Fudge, the Minister of Magic!\rquote 
\par Harry elbowed Ron hard to make him shut up.
\par Hagrid had gone pale and sweaty. He dropped into one of his chairs and looked from Dumbledore to Cornelius Fudge.
\par \lquote Bad business, Hagrid,\rquote  said Fudge, in rather clipped tones. \lquote Very bad business. Had to come. Four attacks on Muggle-borns. Things\rquote ve gone far enough. Ministry\rquote s got to act.\rquote 
\par \lquote I never,\rquote  said Hagrid, looking imploringly at Dumbledore, \lquote you know I never, Professor Dumbledore, sir ...\rquote 
\par \lquote I want it understood, Cornelius, that Hagrid has my full con\-fidence,\rquote  said Dumbledore, frowning at Fudge.
\par \lquote Look, Albus,\rquote  said Fudge, uncomfortably. \lquote Hagrid\rquote s record\rquote s against him. Ministry\rquote s got to do something \endash  the school gov\-ernors have been in touch.\rquote 
\par \lquote Yet again, Cornelius, I tell you that taking Hagrid away will not help in the slightest,\rquote  said Dumbledore. His blue eyes were full of a fire Harry had never seen before.
\par \lquote Look at it from my point of view,\rquote  said Fudge, fidgeting with his bowler. \lquote I\rquote m under a lot of pressure. Got to be seen to be doing something. If it turns out it wasn\rquote t Hagrid, he\rquote 
ll be back and no more said. But I\rquote ve got to take him. Got to. Wouldn\rquote t be doing my duty \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote Take me?\rquote  said Hagrid, who was trembling. \lquote Take me where?\rquote 
\par \lquote For a short stretch only,\rquote  said Fudge, not meeting Hagrid\rquote s eyes. \lquote Not a punishment, Hagrid, more a precaution. If someone else is caught, you\rquote ll be let out with a full apology ...\rquote 
\par \lquote Not Azkaban?\rquote  croaked Hagrid.
\par Before Fudge could answer, there was another loud rap on the door.
\par Dumbledore answered it. It was Harry\rquote s turn for an elbow in the ribs: he\rquote d let out an audible gasp.
\par Mr Lucius Malfoy strode into Hagrid\rquote s hut, swathed in a long black travelling cloak, smiling a cold and satisfied smile. Fang started to growl.
\par \lquote Already here, Fudge,\rquote  he said approvingly. \lquote Good, good ...\rquote 
\par \lquote What\rquote re you doin\rquote  here?\rquote  said Hagrid furiously. \lquote Get outta my house!\rquote 
\par \lquote My dear man, please believe me, I have no pleasure at all in being inside your \endash  er \endash  d\rquote you call this a house?\rquote  said Lucius Malfoy, sneering as he looked around the small cabin. \lquote I simply ca
lled at the school and was told that the Headmaster was here.\rquote 
\par \lquote And what exactly did you want with me, Lucius?\rquote  said Dumbledore. He spoke politely, but the fire was still blazing in his blue eyes.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Dreadful}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  thing, Dumbledore,\rquote  said Mr Malfoy lazily, taking
 out a long roll of parchment, \lquote but the governors feel it\rquote s time for you to step aside. This is an Order of Suspension \endash  you\rquote ll find all twelve signatures on it. I\rquote m afraid we feel you\rquote 
re losing your touch. How many attacks have there been now? Two more this afternoon, wasn\rquote t it? At this rate, there\rquote ll be no Muggle-borns left at Hogwarts, and we all know what an }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 awful}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  loss that would be to the school.\rquote 
\par \lquote Oh, now, see here, Lucius,\rquote  said Fudge, looking alarmed, \lquote Dumbledore suspended ... no, no ... last thing we want just now ...\rquote 
\par \lquote The appointment \endash  or suspension \endash  of the Headmaster is a matter for the governors, Fudge,\rquote  said Mr Malfoy smoothly. \lquote And as Dumbledore has failed to stop these attacks ...\rquote 
\par \lquote Now look, Lucius, if }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Dumbledore}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  can\rquote t stop them \endash \rquote 
 said Fudge, whose upper lip was sweating now, \lquote I mean to say, who }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 can?\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par \lquote That remains to be seen,\rquote  said Mr Malfoy, with a nasty smile. \lquote But as all twelve of us have voted ...\rquote 
\par Hagrid leapt to his feet, his shaggy black head grazing the ceiling.
\par \lquote An\rquote  how many did yeh have ter threaten an\rquote  blackmail before they agreed, Malfoy, eh?\rquote  he roared.
\par \lquote Dear, dear, you know, that temper of yours will lead you into trouble one of these days, Hagrid,\rquote  said Mr Malfoy. \lquote I would advise you not to shout at the Azkaban guards like that. They won\rquote t like it at all.\rquote 
\par \lquote Yeh can\rquote  take Dumbledore!\rquote  yelled Hagrid, making Fang the boarhound cower and whimper in his basket. \lquote Take him away, an\rquote  the Muggle-borns won\rquote  stand a chance! There\rquote ll be killin\rquote s next!\rquote 

\par \lquote Calm yourself, Hagrid,\rquote  said Dumbledore sharply. He looked at Lucius Malfoy.
\par \lquote If the governors want my removal, Lucius, I shall of course step aside.\rquote 
\par \lquote But \endash \rquote  stuttered Fudge.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote No!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  growled Hagrid.
\par Dumbledore had not taken his bright blue eyes off Lucius Malfoy\rquote s cold grey ones.
\par \lquote However,\rquote  said Dumbledore, speaking very slowly and clearly, so that none of them could miss a word, \lquote you will find that I will only }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 truly}{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  have left this school when none here are loyal to me. You will also find that help will always be given at Hogwarts to those who ask for it.\rquote 
\par For a second, Harry was almost sure Dumbledore\rquote s eyes flick\-ered towards the corner where he and Ron stood hidden.
\par \lquote Admirable sentiments,\rquote  said Malfoy, bowing. \lquote We shall all miss your \endash  er \endash  highly individual way of running things, Albus, and only hope that your successor will manage to prevent any \endash  ah \endash  }{\rtlch\fcs1 
\ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \'93killin\rquote s\'94}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 .}{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par He strode to the cabin door, opened it and bowed Dumbledore out. Fudge, fiddling with his bowler, waited for Hagrid to go ahead of him, but Hagrid stood his ground, took a deep breath and said carefully, \lquote If anyone wanted ter find out some }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 stuff,}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  all they\rquote d have ter do would be ter follow the }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 
\ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 spiders.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  That\rquote d lead \rquote em right! That\rquote s all I\rquote m sayin\rquote .\rquote 
\par Fudge stared at him in amazement.
\par \lquote All right, I\rquote m comin\rquote ,\rquote  said Hagrid, pulling on his moleskin overcoat. But as he was about to follow Fudge through the door, he stopped again and said loudly, \lquote An\rquote  someone\rquote ll need ter feed Fang while I
\rquote m away.\rquote 
\par The door banged shut and Ron pulled the Invisibility Cloak off.
\par \lquote We\rquote re in trouble now,\rquote  he said hoarsely. \lquote No Dumbledore. They might as well close the school tonight. There\rquote ll be an attack a day with him gone.\rquote 
\par Fang started howling, scratching at the closed door.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \page 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \emdash  CHAPTER FIFTEEN \emdash 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sa280\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs56 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs56\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Aragog
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sa280\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
Summer was creeping over the grounds around the castle; sky and lake alike turned periwinkle blue and flowers large as cabbages burst into bloom in the greenhouses. But with no Hagrid visible from the castle windows, striding the grounds with Fang at his 
heels, the scene didn\rquote t look right to Harry; no better, in fact, than the inside of the castle, where things were so horribly wrong.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
Harry and Ron had tried to visit Hermione, but visitors were now barred from the hospital wing.
\par \lquote We\rquote re taking no more chances,\rquote  Madam Pomfrey told them severely through a crack in the hospital door. \lquote No, I\rquote m sorry, there\rquote s every chance the attacker might come back to finish these people off ...\rquote 

\par With Dumbledore gone, fear had spread as never before, so that the sun warming the castle walls outside seemed to stop at the mullioned windows. There was barely a face to be seen in the school that didn\rquote 
t look worried and tense, and any laughter that rang through the corridors sounded shrill and unnatural and was quickly stifled.
\par Harry constantly repeated Dumbledore\rquote s final words to himself. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote 
I will only truly have left this school when none here are loyal to me ... Help will always be given at Hogwarts to those who ask for it.\rquote  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
But what good were these words? Who exactly were they supposed to ask for help, when everyone was just as confused and scared as they were?
\par Hagrid\rquote s hint about the spiders was far easier to understand \endash  the trouble was, there didn\rquote t seem to be a single spider left in the castle to follow. Harry looked everywhere h
e went, helped (rather reluctantly) by Ron. They were hampered, of course, by the fact that they weren\rquote 
t allowed to wander off on their own, but had to move around the castle in a pack with the other Gryffindors. Most of their fellow students seemed glad that they were being shep\-herded from class to class by teachers, but Harry found it very irk\-some.

\par One person, however, seemed to be thoroughly enjoying the atmosphere of terror and suspicion. Draco Malfoy was strutting around the school as though he had just been appointed Head Boy. Harry didn\rquote 
t realise what he was so pleased about until the Potions lesson about a fortnight after Dumbledore and Hagrid had left, when, sitting right behind Malfoy, Harry overheard him gloat\-ing to Crabbe and Goyle.
\par \lquote I always thought Father might be the one who got rid of Dumbledore,\rquote  he said, not troubling to keep his voice down. \lquote I told you he thinks Dumbledore\rquote s the worst Headmaster the school\rquote s ever had. Maybe we\rquote 
ll get a decent Headmaster now. Someone who won\rquote t }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 want}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  the Ch
amber of Secrets closed. McGonagall won\rquote t last long, she\rquote s only filling in ...\rquote 
\par Snape swept past Harry, making no comment about Hermione\rquote s empty seat and cauldron.
\par \lquote Sir,\rquote  said Malfoy loudly. \lquote Sir, why don\rquote t }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 you}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
 apply for the Headmaster\rquote s job?\rquote 
\par \lquote Now, now, Malfoy,\rquote  said Snape, though he couldn\rquote t suppress a thin-lipped smile. \lquote Professor Dumbledore has only been suspend\-ed by the governors. I dare say he\rquote ll be back with us soon enough.\rquote 
\par \lquote Yeah, right,\rquote  said Malfoy, smirking. \lquote I expect you\rquote d have Father\rquote s vote, sir, if you wanted to apply for the job. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 I\rquote ll}{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  tell Father you\rquote re the best teacher here, sir ...\rquote 
\par Snape smirked as he swept off around the dungeon, fortunately not spotting Seamus Finnigan, who was pretending to vomit into his cauldron.
\par \lquote I\rquote m quite surprised the Mudbloods haven\rquote t all packed their bags by now,\rquote  Malfoy went on. \lquote Bet you five Galleons the next one dies. Pity it wasn\rquote t Granger ...\rquote 
\par The bell rang at that moment, which was lucky; at Malfoy\rquote s last words, Ron had leapt off his stool, and in the scramble to collect bags and books, his attempts to reach Malfoy went unnoticed.
\par \lquote Let me at him,\rquote  Ron growled, as Harry and Dean hung onto his arms. \lquote I don\rquote t care, I don\rquote t need my wand, I\rquote m going to kill him with my bare hands \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote Hurry up, I\rquote ve got to take you all to Herbology,\rquote  barked Snape over the class\rquote 
s heads, and off they went, crocodile fashion, with Harry, Ron and Dean bringing up the rear, Ron still trying to get loose. It was only safe to let go of him when Snape had seen them out of the castle, and they were making their way across the veg\-
etable patch towards the greenhouses.
\par The Herbology class was very subdued; there were now two missing from their number, Justin and Hermione.
\par Professor Sprout set them all to work pruning the Abyssinian Shrivelfigs. Harry went to tip an armful of withered stalks onto the compost heap and found himself face to face with Ernie Macmillan. Ernie took a deep breath and said, very formally, \lquote 
I just want to say, Harry, that I\rquote m sorry I ever suspected you. I know you\rquote d never attack Hermione Granger, and I apologise for all the stuff I said. We\rquote re all in the same boat now, and, well \endash \rquote 
\par He held out a pudgy hand, and Harry shook it.
\par Ernie and his friend Hannah came to work at the same Shrivelfig as Harry and Ron.
\par \lquote That Draco Malfoy character,\rquote  said Ernie, breaking off dead twigs, \lquote he seems very pleased about all this, doesn\rquote t he? D\rquote you know, I think }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 he}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  might be Slytherin\rquote s heir.\rquote 
\par \lquote That\rquote s clever of you,\rquote  said Ron, who didn\rquote t seem to have for\-given Ernie as readily as Harry.
\par \lquote Do }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 you}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  think it\rquote s Malfoy, Harry?\rquote  Ernie asked.
\par \lquote No,\rquote  said Harry, so firmly that Ernie and Hannah stared.
\par A second later, Harry spotted something that made him hit Ron over the hand with his pruning shears.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Ouch!}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  What\rquote re you \endash \rquote 
\par Harry was pointing at the ground a few feet away. Several large spiders were scurrying across the earth.
\par \lquote Oh, yeah,\rquote  said Ron, trying, and failing, to look pleased. \lquote But we can\rquote t follow them now ...\rquote 
\par Ernie and Hannah were listening curiously.
\par Harry watched the spiders running away.
\par \lquote Looks like they\rquote re heading for the Forbidden Forest ...\rquote 
\par And Ron looked even unhappier about that.
\par At the end of the lesson Professor Sprout escorted the class to their Defence Against the Dark Arts lesson. Harry and Ron lagged behind the others so they could talk out of earshot.
\par \lquote We\rquote ll have to use the Invisibility Cloak again,\rquote  Harry told Ron. \lquote We can take Fang with us. He\rquote s used to going into the Forest with Hagrid, he might be some help.\rquote 
\par \lquote Right,\rquote  said Ron, who was twirling his wand nervously in his fingers. \lquote Er \endash  aren\rquote t there \endash  aren\rquote t there supposed to be werewolves in the Forest?\rquote 
 he added, as they took their usual places at the back of Lockhart\rquote s classroom.
\par Preferring not to answer that question, Harry said, \lquote There are good things in there, too. The centaurs are all right, and the unicorns.\rquote 
\par Ron had never been into the Forbidden Forest before. Harry had entered it only once, and had hoped never to do so again.
\par Lockhart bounded into the room and the class stared at him. Every other teacher in the place was looking grimmer than usual, but Lockhart appeared nothing short of buoyant.
\par \lquote Come now,\rquote  he cried, beaming around him, \lquote why all these long faces?\rquote 
\par People swapped exasperated looks, but nobody answered.
\par \lquote Don\rquote t you people realise,\rquote  said Lockhart, speaking slowly, as though they were all a bit dim, \lquote the danger has passed! The culprit has been taken away.\rquote 
\par \lquote Says who?\rquote  said Dean Thomas loudly.
\par \lquote My dear young man, the Minister of Magic wouldn\rquote t have taken Hagrid if he hadn\rquote t been one hundred per cent sure that he was guilty,\rquote  said Lockhart, in the tone of someone explaining that one and one made two.
\par \lquote Oh, yes he would,\rquote  said Ron, even more loudly than Dean.
\par \lquote I flatter myself I know a }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 touch}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  more about Hagrid\rquote 
s arrest than you do, Mr Weasley,\rquote  said Lockhart in a self-satisfied tone.
\par Ron started to say that he didn\rquote t think so, somehow, but stopped in mid-sentence when Harry kicked him hard under the desk.
\par \lquote We weren\rquote t there, remember?\rquote  Harry muttered.
\par But Lockhart\rquote s disgusting cheeriness, his hints that he had always thought Hagrid was no good, his confidence that the whole business was now at an end, irritated Harry so much that he yearned to throw }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Gadding with Ghouls}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  right in Lockhart\rquote s stu\-pi
d face. Instead he contented himself with scrawling a note to Ron: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Let\rquote s do it tonight.\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par Ron read the message, swallowed hard and looked sideways at the empty seat usually filled by Hermione. The sight seemed to stiffen his resolve, and he nodded.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 *
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 The Gryffindor common room was always very crowded these days, because from six o\rquote 
clock onwards, the Gryffindors had nowhere else to go. They also had plenty to talk about, with the result that the common room often didn\rquote t empty until past mid\-night.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Harry went
 to get the Invisibility Cloak out of his trunk right after dinner, and spent the evening sitting on it, waiting for the room to clear. Fred and George challenged Harry and Ron to a few games of Exploding Snap and Ginny sat watching them, very sub\-
dued in Hermione\rquote s usual chair. Harry and Ron kept losing on purpose, trying to finish the games quickly, but even so, it was well past midnight when Fred, George and Ginny finally went to bed.
\par Harry and Ron waited for the distant sounds of two dormitory doors closing before seizing the Cloak, throwing it over them\-selves, and climbing through the portrait hole.
\par It was another difficult journey through the castle, dodging all the teachers. At last they reached the Entrance Hall, slid back the lock on the oak front doors, squeezed between them, trying to stop any creaking, and stepped out into the moonlit grounds.

\par \lquote  \rquote Course,\rquote  said Ron abruptly, as they strode across the black grass, \lquote we might get to the Forest and find there\rquote s nothing to follow. Those spiders might not\rquote 
ve been going there at all. I know it looked like they were moving in that sort of general direction, but ...\rquote 
\par His voice tailed away hopefully.
\par They reached Hagrid\rquote s house, sad and sorry-looking with its blank windows. When Harry pushed the door open, Fang went mad with joy at the sight of them. Worried he might wake every\-
one at the castle with his deep, booming barks, they hastily fed him treacle fudge from a tin on the mantelpiece, which glued his teeth together.
\par Harry left the Invisibility Cloak on Hagrid\rquote s table. There would be no need for it in the pitch-dark Forest.
\par \lquote C\rquote mon, Fang, we\rquote re going for a walk,\rquote  said Harry, patting his leg, and Fang bounded happily out of the house behind them, dashed to the edge of the Forest and lifted his leg against a large sycamore tree.
\par Harry took out his wand, murmured, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Lumos!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
 and a tiny light appeared at the end of it, just enough to let them watch the path for signs of spiders.
\par \lquote Good thinking,\rquote  said Ron. \lquote I\rquote d light mine too, but you know \endash  it\rquote d probably blow up or something ...\rquote 
\par Harry tapped Ron on the shoulder, pointing at the grass. Two solitary spiders were hurrying away from the wandlight into the shade of the trees.
\par \lquote OK,\rquote  Ron sighed, as though resigned to the worst, \lquote I\rquote m ready. Let\rquote s go.\rquote 
\par So, with Fang scampering around them, sniffing tree roots and leaves, they entered the Forest. By the glow of Harry\rquote 
s wand, they followed the steady trickle of spiders moving along the path. They walked for about twenty minutes, not speaking, listening hard for noises other t
han breaking twigs and rustling leaves. Then, when the trees had become thicker than ever, so that the stars overhead were no longer visible, and Harry\rquote s wand shone alone in the sea of dark, they saw their spider guides leaving the path.
\par Harry paused, tryi
ng to see where the spiders were going, but everything outside his little sphere of light was pitch black. He had never been this deep into the Forest before. He could vividly remember Hagrid advising him not to leave the Forest path last time he\rquote 
d been in here. But Hagrid was miles away now, probably sitting in a cell in Azkaban, and he had also said to follow the spiders.
\par Something wet touched Harry\rquote s hand and he jumped back\-wards, crushing Ron\rquote s foot, but it was only Fang\rquote s nose.
\par \lquote What d\rquote you reckon?\rquote  Harry said to Ron, whose eyes he could just make out, reflecting the light from his wand.
\par \lquote We\rquote ve come this far,\rquote  said Ron.
\par So they followed the darting shadows of the spiders into the trees. They couldn\rquote t move very quickly now; there were tree roots and stumps in their way, barely visible in the near blackness. Harry could feel Fang\rquote 
s hot breath on his hand. More than once, they had to stop, so that Harry could crouch down and find the spiders in the wandlight.
\par They walked for what seemed like at least half an hour, their robes snagging on low-slung branches and brambles. After a while, they noticed that the ground seemed to be sloping down\-wards, though the trees were as thick as ever.
\par Then Fang suddenly let loose a great, echoing bark, making both Harry and Ron jump out of their skins.
\par \lquote What?\rquote  said Ron loudly, looking around into the pitch dark, and gripping Harry\rquote s elbow very hard.
\par \lquote There\rquote s something moving over there,\rquote  Harry breathed. \lquote Listen ... Sounds like something big.\rquote 
\par They listened. Some distance to their right, the something big was snapping branches as it carved a path through the trees.
\par \lquote Oh no,\rquote  said Ron. \lquote Oh no, oh no, oh \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote Shut up,\rquote  said Harry frantically. \lquote It\rquote ll hear you.\rquote 
\par \lquote Hear }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 me?\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  said Ron in an unnaturally high voice. \lquote It\rquote 
s already heard Fang!\rquote 
\par The darkness seemed to be pressing on their eyeballs as they stood, terrified, waiting. There was a strange rumbling noise and then silence.
\par \lquote What d\rquote you think it\rquote s doing?\rquote  said Harry.
\par \lquote Probably getting ready to pounce,\rquote  said Ron.
\par They waited, shivering, hardly daring to move.
\par \lquote D\rquote you think it\rquote s gone?\rquote  Harry whispered.
\par \lquote Dunno \endash \rquote 
\par Then, to their right, came a sudden blaze of light, so bright in the darkness that both of them flung up their hands to shield their eyes. Fang yelped and tried to run, but got lodged in a tangle of thorns and yelped even louder.
\par \lquote Harry!\rquote  Ron shouted, his voice breaking with relief. \lquote Harry, it\rquote s our car!\rquote 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote What?\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par \lquote Come on!\rquote 
\par Harry blundered after Ron towards the light, stumbling and tripping, and a moment later they had emerged into a clearing.
\par Mr Weasley\rquote s car was standing, empty, in the middle of a circle of thick trees under a roof of dense branches, its headlamps ablaze. As Ron walked, open-mouthed, towards it, it moved slow\-ly tow
ards him, exactly like a large, turquoise dog greeting its owner.
\par \lquote It\rquote s been here all the time!\rquote  said Ron delightedly, walking around the car. \lquote Look at it. The Forest\rquote s turned it wild ...\rquote 
\par The wings of the car were scratched and smeared with mud. Apparently it had taken to trundling around the Forest on its own. Fang didn\rquote 
t seem at all keen on it; he kept close to Harry, who could feel him quivering. His breathing slowing down again, Harry stuffed his wand back into his robes.
\par \lquote And we thought it was going to attack us!\rquote  said Ron, leaning against the car and patting it. \lquote I wondered where it had gone!\rquote 
\par Harry squinted around on the floodlit ground for signs of more spiders, but they had all scuttled away from the glare of the head\-lights.
\par \lquote We\rquote ve lost the trail,\rquote  he said. \lquote C\rquote mon, let\rquote s go and find them.\rquote 
\par Ron didn\rquote t speak. He didn\rquote t move. His eyes were fixed on a point some ten feet above the Forest floor, right behind Harry. His face was livid with terror.
\par Harry didn\rquote t even have time to turn around. There was a l
oud clicking noise and suddenly he felt something long and hairy seize him around the middle and lift him off the ground, so that he was hanging, face down. Struggling, terrified, he heard more clicking, and saw Ron\rquote 
s legs leave the ground too, heard Fang whimpering and howling \endash  next moment, he was being swept away into the dark trees.
\par Head hanging, Harry saw that what had hold of him was marching on six immensely long, hairy legs, the front two clutch\-ing him tightly below a pair of shining black pincers.
 Behind him, he could hear another of the creatures, no doubt carrying Ron. They were moving into the very heart of the Forest. Harry could hear Fang fighting to free himself from a third monster, whining loudly, but Harry couldn\rquote 
t have yelled even if he had wanted to; he seemed to have left his voice back with the car in the clearing.
\par He never knew how long he was in the creature\rquote 
s clutches; he only knew that the darkness suddenly lifted enough for him to see that the leaf-strewn ground was now swarming with spiders. Craning his neck sideways, he realised that they had reached the rim of a vast hollow, a hollow which had been clea
red of trees, so that the stars shone brightly onto the worst scene he had ever clapped eyes upon.
\par Spiders. Not tiny spiders like those surging over the leaves below. Spiders the size of carthorses, eight-eyed, eight-legged, black, hairy, gigantic. The mass
ive specimen that was carrying Harry made its way down the steep slope, towards a misty domed web in the very centre of the hollow, while its fellows closed in all around it, clicking their pincers excitedly at the sight of its load.
\par Harry fell to the ground on all fours as the spider released him. Ron and Fang thudded down next to him. Fang wasn\rquote 
t howling any more, but cowering silently on the spot. Ron looked exactly like Harry felt. His mouth was stretched wide in a kind of silent scream and his eyes were popping.
\par Harry suddenly realised that the spider which had dropped him was saying something. It had been hard to tell, because he clicked his pincers with every word he spoke.
\par \lquote Aragog!\rquote  it called. \lquote Aragog!\rquote 
\par And from the middle of the misty domed web, a spider the size of a small elephant emerged, very slowly. There was grey in the black of his body and legs, and each of the eyes on his ugly, pin\-cered head was milky white. He was blind.
\par \lquote What is it?\rquote  he said, clicking his pincers rapidly.
\par \lquote Men,\rquote  clicked the spider who had caught Harry.
\par \lquote Is it Hagrid?\rquote  said Aragog, moving closer, his eight milky eyes wandering vaguely.
\par \lquote Strangers,\rquote  clicked the spider who had brought Ron.
\par \lquote Kill them,\rquote  clicked Aragog fretfully. \lquote I was sleeping ...\rquote 
\par \lquote We\rquote re friends of Hagrid\rquote s,\rquote  Harry shouted. His heart seemed to have left his chest to pound in his throat.
\par Click, click, click went the pincers of the spiders all around the hollow.
\par Aragog paused.
\par \lquote Hagrid has never sent men into our hollow before,\rquote  he said slowly.
\par \lquote Hagrid\rquote s in trouble,\rquote  said Harry, breathing very fast. \lquote That\rquote s why we\rquote ve come.\rquote 
\par \lquote In trouble?\rquote  said the aged spider, and Harry thought he heard concern beneath the clicking pincers. \lquote But why has he sent you?\rquote 
\par Harry thought of getting to his feet, but decided against it; he didn\rquote t think his legs would support him. So he spoke from the ground, as calmly as he could.
\par \lquote They think, up at the school, that Hagrid\rquote s been setting a \endash  a \endash  something on students. They\rquote ve taken him to Azkaban.\rquote 
\par Aragog clicked his pincers furiously, and all around the hollow the sound was echoed by the crowd of spiders; it was like applause, except applause didn\rquote t usually make Harry feel sick with fear.
\par \lquote But that was years ago,\rquote  said Aragog fretfully. \lquote Years and years ago. I remember it well. That\rquote s why they made him leave the school. They believed that }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 I}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
 was the monster that dwells in what they call the Chamber of Secrets. They thought that Hagrid had opened the Chamber and set me free.\rquote 
\par \lquote And you ... you didn\rquote t come from the Chamber of Secrets?\rquote  said Harry, who could feel cold sweat on his forehead.
\par \lquote I!\rquote  said Aragog, clicking angrily. \lquote I was not born in the castle. I come from a distant land. A traveller gave me to Hagrid when I was an egg. Hagrid was only a boy, but he cared for me, hidden in a cupboard i
n the castle, feeding me on scraps from the table. Hagrid is my good friend, and a good man. When I was discov\-
ered, and blamed for the death of a girl, he protected me. I have lived here in the Forest ever since, where Hagrid still visits me. He even found me a wife, Mosag, and you see how our family has grown, all through Hagrid\rquote s goodness ...\rquote 

\par Harry summoned what remained of his courage.
\par \lquote So you never \endash  never attacked anyone?\rquote 
\par \lquote Never,\rquote  croaked the old spider. \lquote It would have been my instinct, but from res
pect of Hagrid, I never harmed a human. The body of the girl who was killed was discovered in a bathroom. I never saw any part of the castle but the cupboard in which I grew up. Our kind like the dark and the quiet ...\rquote 
\par \lquote But then ... Do you know what }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 did}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  kill that girl?\rquote  said Harry. 
\lquote Because whatever it is, it\rquote s back and attacking people again \endash \rquote 
\par His words were drowned by a loud outbreak of clicking and the rustling of many long legs shifting angrily; large black shapes shifted all around him.
\par \lquote The thing that lives in the castle,\rquote  said Aragog, \lquote is an ancient creature we spiders fear above all others. Well do I remember how I pleaded with Hagrid to let me go, when I sensed the beast moving about the school.\rquote 
\par \lquote What is it?\rquote  said Harry urgently.
\par More loud clicking, more rustling; the spiders seemed to be closing in.
\par \lquote We do not speak of it!\rquote  said Aragog fiercely. \lquote We do not name it! I never even told Hagrid the name of that dread creature, though he asked me, many times.\rquote 
\par Harry didn\rquote t want to press the subject, not with the spiders pressing closer on all sides. Aragog seemed to be tired of talking. He was backing slowly into his domed web, but his fellow spiders continued to inch slowly towards Harry and Ron.
\par \lquote We\rquote ll just go, then,\rquote  Harry called desperately to Aragog, hearing leaves rustling behind him.
\par \lquote Go?\rquote  said Aragog slowly. \lquote I think not ...\rquote 
\par \lquote But \endash  but \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote My sons and daughters do not harm Hagrid, on my command. But I cannot deny them fresh meat, when it wanders so willingly into our midst. Goodbye, friend of Hagrid.\rquote 
\par Harry spun around. Feet away, towering above him, was a solid wall of spiders, clicking, their many eyes gleaming in their ugly black heads ...
\par Even as he reached for his wand, Harry knew it was no good, there were too many of them, but as he tried to stand, ready to die fighting, a loud, long note sounded, and a blaze of light flamed through the hollow.
\par Mr Weasley\rquote s car was thundering down the slope, headlamps glaring, its horn screeching, knocking spiders aside; several were thrown onto
 their backs, their endless legs waving in the air. The car screeched to a halt in front of Harry and Ron and the doors flew open.
\par \lquote Get Fang!\rquote  Harry yelled, diving into the front seat; Ron seized the boarhound round the middle and threw him, yelping, into the back of the car. The doors slammed shut. Ron didn\rquote t touch the accelerator but the car didn\rquote 
t need him; the engine roared and they were off, hitting more spiders. They sped up the slope, out of the hollow, and they were soon crashing through the Forest,
 branches whipping the windows as the car wound its way cleverly through the widest gaps, following a path it obviously knew.
\par Harry looked sideways at Ron. His mouth was still open in the silent scream, but his eyes weren\rquote t popping any more.
\par \lquote Are you OK?\rquote 
\par Ron stared straight ahead, unable to speak.
\par They smashed their way through the undergrowth, Fang howling loudly in the back seat, and Harry saw the wing mirror snap off as they squeezed past a large oak. After ten noisy, rocky minutes, the trees thinned, and Harry could again see patches of sky.

\par The car stopped so suddenly that they were nearly thrown into the windscreen. They had reached the edge of the Forest. Fang flung himself at the window in his anxiety to get out and when Harry opened the door, he shot off through the trees to Hagrid
\rquote s house, tail between his legs. Harry got out too, and after a minute or so, Ron seemed to regain the feeling in his limbs and followed, still stiff-necked and staring. Harry gave the car a grateful pat as it reversed bac
k into the Forest and disappeared from view.
\par Harry went back into Hagrid\rquote s cabin to get the Invisibility Cloak. Fang was trembling under a blanket in his basket. When Harry got outside again, he found Ron being violently sick in the pumpkin patch.
\par \lquote Follow the spiders,\rquote  said Ron weakly, wiping his mouth on his sleeve. \lquote I\rquote ll never forgive Hagrid. We\rquote re lucky to be alive.\rquote 
\par \lquote I bet he thought Aragog wouldn\rquote t hurt friends of his,\rquote  said Harry.
\par \lquote That\rquote s exactly Hagrid\rquote s problem!\rquote  said Ron, thumping the wall of the cabin. \lquote He always thinks monsters aren\rquote t as bad as they\rquote re made out, and look where it\rquote s got him! A cell in Azkaban!\rquote 
 He was shivering uncontrollably now. \lquote What was the point of sending us in there? What have we found out, I\rquote d like to know?\rquote 
\par \lquote That Hagrid never opened the Chamber of Secrets,\rquote  said Harry, throwing the cloak over Ron and prodding him in the arm to make him walk. \lquote He was innocent.\rquote 
\par Ron gave a loud snort. Evidently, hatching Aragog out in a cup\-board wasn\rquote t his idea of being innocent.
\par As the cast
le loomed nearer Harry twitched the Cloak to make sure their feet were hidden, then pushed the creaking front doors ajar. They walked carefully back across the Entrance Hall and up the marble staircase, holding their breath as they passed corridors where 
watchful sentries were walking. At last they reached the safety of the Gryffindor common room, where the fire had burned itself into glowing ash. They took off the Cloak and climbed the winding staircase to their dormitory.
\par Ron fell onto his bed without bothering to get undressed. Harry, however, didn\rquote t feel very sleepy. He sat on the edge of his four-poster, thinking hard about everything Aragog had said.
\par The creature that was lurking somewhere in the castle, he thought, sounded like a sort of monster Voldemort \endash  even other monsters didn\rquote 
t want to name it. But he and Ron were no closer to finding out what it was, or how it Petrified its victims. Even Hagrid had never known what was in the Chamber of Secrets.
\par Harry swung his legs up onto his bed and leaned back against his pillows, watching the moon glinting at him through the tower window.
\par He couldn\rquote 
t see what else they could do. They had hit dead ends everywhere. Riddle had caught the wrong person, the heir of Slytherin had got off, and no one could tell whether it was the same person, or a different one, who had opened the Chamber this time. There 
was nobody else to ask. Harry lay down, still thinking about what Aragog said.
\par He was becoming drowsy when what seemed like their very last hope occurred to him and he suddenly sat bolt upright.
\par \lquote Ron,\rquote  he hissed through the dark. \lquote Ron!\rquote 
\par Ron woke with a yelp like Fang\rquote s, stared wildly around and saw Harry.
\par \lquote Ron \endash  that girl who died. Aragog said she was found in a bath\-room,\rquote  said Harry, ignoring Neville\rquote s snuffling snores from the corner. \lquote What if she never left the bathroom? What if she\rquote s still there?\rquote 

\par Ron rubbed his eyes, frowning through the moonlight. And then he understood.
\par \lquote You }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 don\rquote t}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  think \endash  not }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Moaning Myrtle?\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \page }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \emdash  CHAPTER SIXTEEN \emdash 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sa280\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs56 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs56\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 The Chamber of Secrets
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sa280\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote All those times we were in that bathroom, and she was just three toilets away,\rquote 
 said Ron bitterly at breakfast next day, \lquote and we could\rquote ve asked her, and now ...\rquote 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
It had been hard enough trying to look for spiders. Escaping their teachers long enough to sneak into a girls\rquote  bathroom, the girls\rquote  bathroom, moreover, right next to the scene of the first attack, was going to be almost impossible.
\par But something happened in their first lesson, Transfiguration, which drove the Chamber of Secrets out of their minds for the first time in weeks. Ten minutes into the class, Professor McGonagall told them that the
ir exams would start on the first of June, one week from today.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Exams?\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  howled Seamus Finnigan. \lquote We\rquote re still getting 
}{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 exams?\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par There was a loud bang behind Harry as Neville Longbottom\rquote s wand slipped, vanishing one of the legs on his desk. Professor McGonagall restored it with a wave of her own wand, and turned, frowning, to Seamus.
\par \lquote The whole point of keeping the school open at this time is for you to receive your education,\rquote  she said sternly. \lquote The exams will therefore take place as usual, and I trust you are all revising hard.\rquote 
\par Revising hard! It had never occurred to Harry that there would be exams with the castle in this state. There was a great deal of mutinous muttering around the room, which made Professor McGonagall scowl even more darkly.
\par \lquote Professor Dumbledore\rquote s instructions were to keep the school running as normally as possible,\rquote  she said. \lquote And that, I need hardly point out, means finding out how much you have learned this year.\rquote 
\par Harry looked down at the pair of white rabbits he was sup\-posed to be turning into slippers. What had he learned so far this year? He couldn\rquote t seem to think of anything that would be useful in an exam.
\par Ron looked as though he\rquote d just been told he had to go and live in the Forbidden Forest.
\par \lquote Can you imagine me taking exams with this?\rquote  he asked Harry, holding up his wand, which had just started whistling loudly.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 *
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Three days before their first exam, Professor McGonagall made another announcement at breakfast.

\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote I have good news,\rquote 
 she said, and the Great Hall, instead of falling silent, erupted.
\par \lquote Dumbledore\rquote s coming back!\rquote  several people yelled joyfully.
\par \lquote You\rquote ve caught the heir of Slytherin!\rquote  squealed a girl on the Ravenclaw table.
\par \lquote Quidditch matches are back on!\rquote  roared Wood excitedly.
\par When the hubbub had subsided, Professor McGonagall said, \lquote Professor Sprout has informed me that the Mandrakes are ready for cutting at last. Tonight, we will be able to revive those people who have bee
n Petrified. I need hardly remind you all that one of them may well be able to tell us who, or what, attacked them. I am hopeful that this dreadful year will end with our catching the culprit.\rquote 
\par There was an explosion of cheering. Harry looked over at the Slytherin table and wasn\rquote t at all surprised to see that Draco Malfoy hadn\rquote t joined in. Ron, however, was looking happier than he\rquote d looked in days.
\par \lquote It won\rquote t matter that we never asked Myrtle, then!\rquote  he said to Harry. \lquote Hermione\rquote ll probably have all the answers when they wake her up! Mind you, she\rquote ll go mad when she finds out we\rquote 
ve got exams in three days\rquote  time. She hasn\rquote t revised. It might be kinder to leave her where she is till they\rquote re over.\rquote 
\par Just then, Ginny Weasley came over and sat down next to Ron. She looked tense and nervous, and Harry noticed that her hands were twisting in her lap.
\par \lquote What\rquote s up?\rquote  said Ron, helping himself to more porridge.
\par Ginny didn\rquote t say anything, but glanced up and down the Gryffindor table with a scared look on her face that reminded Harry of someone, though he couldn\rquote t think who.
\par \lquote Spit it out,\rquote  said Ron, watching her.
\par Harry suddenly realised who Ginny looked like. She was rocking backwards and forwards slightly in her chair, exactly like Dobby did when he was teetering on the edge of revealing forbid\-den information.
\par \lquote I\rquote ve got to tell you something,\rquote  Ginny mumbled, carefully not looking at Harry.
\par \lquote What is it?\rquote  said Harry.
\par Ginny looked as though she couldn\rquote t find the right words.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote What?\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  said Ron.
\par Ginny opened her mouth, but no sound came out. Harry leaned forward and spoke quietly, so that only Ginny and Ron could hear him.
\par \lquote Is it something about the Chamber of Secrets? Have you seen something? Someone acting oddly?\rquote 
\par Ginny drew a deep breath and, at that precise moment, Percy Weasley appeared, looking tired and wan.
\par \lquote If you\rquote ve finished eating, I\rquote ll take that seat, Ginny. I\rquote m starving, I\rquote ve only just come off patrol duty.\rquote 
\par Ginny jumped up as though her chair had just been electrified, gave Percy a fleeting, frightened look, and scarpered away. Percy sat down and grabbed a mug from the centre of the table.
\par \lquote Percy!\rquote  said Ron angrily. \lquote She was just about to tell us some\-thing important!\rquote 
\par Halfway through a gulp of tea, Percy choked.
\par \lquote What sort of thing?\rquote  he said, coughing.
\par \lquote I just asked her if she\rquote d seen anything odd, and she started to say \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote Oh \endash  that \endash  that\rquote s nothing to do with the Chamber of Secrets,\rquote  said Percy at once.
\par \lquote How do you know?\rquote  said Ron, his eyebrows raised.
\par \lquote Well, er, if you must know, Ginny, er, walked in on me the other day when I was \endash  well, never mind \endash  the point is, she spotted me doing something and I, um, I asked her not to mention it to anybody. I must say, I did think she
\rquote d keep her word. It\rquote s nothing, really, I\rquote d just rather \endash \rquote 
\par Harry had never seen Percy look so uncomfortable.
\par \lquote What were you doing, Percy?\rquote  said Ron, grinning. \lquote Go on, tell us, we won\rquote t laugh.\rquote 
\par Percy didn\rquote t smile back.
\par \lquote Pass me those rolls, Harry, I\rquote m starving.\rquote 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 *
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Harry knew the whole mystery might be solved tomorrow with\-out their help, but he wasn\rquote 
t about to pass up a chance to speak to Myrtle if it turned up \endash  and to his delight it did, mid-morning, when they were being led to History of Magic by Gilderoy Lockhart.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Lockhart, who had so often assured them that all danger had passed, o
nly to be proved wrong straight away, was now whole\-heartedly convinced that it was hardly worth the trouble to see them safely down the corridors. His hair wasn\rquote 
t as sleek as usual; it seemed he had been up most of the night, patrolling the fourth floor.
\par \lquote Mark my words,\rquote  he said, ushering them around a corner, \lquote the first words out of those poor Petrified people\rquote s mouths will be, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \'93
It was Hagrid.\'94}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Frankly I\rquote m astounded Professor McGonagall thinks all these security measures are necessary.\rquote 
\par \lquote I agree, sir,\rquote  said Harry, making Ron drop his books in surprise.
\par \lquote Thank you, Harry,\rquote  said Lockhart graciously, while they waited for a long line of Hufflepuffs to pass. \lquote I mean, we teachers have quite enough to be getting on with, without walking students to classes and standing guard all night ...
\rquote 
\par \lquote That\rquote s right,\rquote  said Ron, catching on. \lquote Why don\rquote t you leave us here, sir, we\rquote ve only got one more corridor to go.\rquote 
\par \lquote You know, Weasley, I think I will,\rquote  said Lockhart. \lquote I really should go and prepare my next class.\rquote 
\par And he hurried off.
\par \lquote Prepare his class,\rquote  Ron sneered after him. \lquote Gone to curl his hair, more like.\rquote 
\par They let the rest of the Gryffindors draw ahead of them, then darted down a side passage and hurried off towards Moaning Myrtle\rquote s bathroom. But just as they were congratulating each other on their brilliant scheme ...
\par \lquote Potter! Weasley! What are you doing?\rquote 
\par It was Professor McGonagall, and her mouth was the thinnest of thin lines.
\par \lquote We were \endash  we were \endash \rquote  Ron stammered, \lquote we were going to \endash  to go and see \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote Hermione,\rquote  said Harry. Ron and Professor McGonagall both looked at him.
\par \lquote We haven\rquote t seen her for ages, Professor,\rquote  Harry went on hur\-riedly, treading on Ron\rquote s foot, \lquote and we thought we\rquote d sneak into the hospital wing, you know, and tell her the Mandrakes are nearly re
ady and, er, not to worry.\rquote 
\par Professor McGonagall was still staring at him, and for a moment, Harry thought she was going to explode, but when she spoke, it was in a strangely croaky voice.
\par \lquote Of course,\rquote  she said, and Harry, amazed, saw a tear glistening in her beady eye. \lquote 
Of course, I realise this has all been hardest on the friends of those who have been ... I quite understand. Yes, Potter, of course you may visit Miss Granger. I will inform Professor Binns where you\rquote ve gone. Tell Madam Pomfrey I have given
 my permission.\rquote 
\par Harry and Ron walked away, hardly daring to believe that they\rquote d avoided detention. As they turned the corner, they distinctly heard Professor McGonagall blow her nose.
\par \lquote That,\rquote  said Ron fervently, \lquote was the best story you\rquote ve ever come up with.\rquote 
\par They had no choice now but to go to the hospital wing and tell Madam Pomfrey that they had Professor McGonagall\rquote s permission to visit Hermione.
\par Madam Pomfrey let them in, but reluctantly.
\par \lquote There\rquote s just no }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 point}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  talking to a Petrified person,\rquote 
 she said, and they had to admit she was right when they\rquote d taken their seats next to Hermione. It was plain that Hermione didn\rquote 
t have the faintest inkling that she had visitors, and that they might just as well tell her bedside cabinet not to worry for all the good it would do.
\par \lquote Wonder if she did see the attacker, though?\rquote  said Ron, looking sadly at Hermione\rquote s rigid face. \lquote Because if he sneaked up on them all, no one\rquote ll ever know ...\rquote 
\par But Harry wasn\rquote t looking at Hermione\rquote s face. He was more interested in her right hand. It lay clenched on top of her blan\-kets, and bending closer, he saw that a piece of paper was scrunched inside her fist.
\par Making sure that Madam Pomfrey was nowhere near, he point\-ed this out to Ron.
\par \lquote Try and get it out,\rquote  Ron whispered, shifting his chair so that he blocked Harry from Madam Pomfrey\rquote s view.
\par It was no easy task. Hermione\rquote s hand was clamped so tightly around the paper that Harry was sure he was going to tear it. While Ron kept watch he tugged and twisted, and at last, after several tense minutes, the paper came free.
\par It was a page torn from a very old library book. Harry smoothed it out eagerly and Ron leaned close to read it too.
\par 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li284\ri284\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin284\lin284\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
Of the many fearsome beasts and monsters that roam our land, there is none more curious or more deadly than the
 Basilisk, known also as the King of Serpents. This snake, which may reach gigantic size, and live many hundreds of years, is born from a chicken\rquote 
s egg, hatched beneath a toad. Its methods of killing are most wondrous, for aside from its deadly and ven\-omo
us fangs, the Basilisk has a murderous stare, and all who are fixed with the beam of its eye shall suffer instant death. Spiders flee before the Basilisk, for it is their mortal enemy, and the Basilisk flees only from the crowing of the rooster, which is 
fatal to it.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 And beneath this, a single word had been written, in a hand Harry recognised as Hermione\rquote 
s. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Pipes.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 It was as though somebody had just flicked a light on in his brain.
\par \lquote Ron,\rquote  he breathed, \lquote this is it. This is the answer. The monster in the Chamber\rquote s a }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Basilisk}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  \endash }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 a giant serpent! }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 That\rquote s}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  why I\rquote 
ve been hearing that voice all over the place, and nobody else has heard it. It\rquote s because I understand Parseltongue ...\rquote 
\par Harry looked up at the beds around him.
\par \lquote The Basilisk kills people by looking at them. But no one\rquote s died \endash 
 because no one looked it straight in the eye. Colin saw it through his camera. The Basilisk burned up all the film inside it, but Colin just got Petrified. Justin ... Justin must\rquote ve seen the Basilisk through Nearly Headless Nick! Nick 
got the full blast of it, but he couldn\rquote t die }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 again}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  ...}{\rtlch\fcs1 
\ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
and Hermione and that Ravenclaw Prefect were found with a mirror next to them. Hermione had just realised the monster was a Basilisk. I bet you anything she warned the first person she met to look rou
nd corners with a mirror first! And that girl pulled out her mirror \endash  and \endash \rquote 
\par Ron\rquote s jaw had dropped.
\par \lquote And Mrs Norris?\rquote  he whispered eagerly.
\par Harry thought hard, picturing the scene on the night of Hallowe\rquote en.
\par \lquote The water ...\rquote  he said slowly, \lquote the flood from Moaning Myrtle\rquote s bathroom. I bet you Mrs Norris only saw the reflection ...\rquote 
\par He scanned the page in his hand eagerly. The more he looked at it, the more it made sense.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote The Basilisk flees only from the crowing of the rooster, which is fatal to it!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  he read aloud. \lquote Hagrid\rquote s roosters were killed! The heir of Slytherin didn\rquote t want one anywhere near the castle once the Chamber was opened! }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Spiders flee before the Basilisk!}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  It all fits!\rquote 
\par \lquote But how\rquote s the Basilisk been getting around the place?\rquote  said Ron. \lquote A dirty great snake ... Someone would\rquote ve seen ...\rquote 
\par Harry, however, pointed at the word Hermione had scribbled at the foot of the page.
\par \lquote Pipes,\rquote  he said. \lquote Pipes ... Ron, it\rquote s been using the plumbing. I\rquote ve been hearing that voice inside the walls ...\rquote 
\par Ron suddenly grabbed Harry\rquote s arm.
\par \lquote The entrance to the Chamber of Secrets!\rquote  he said hoarsely. \lquote What if it\rquote s a bathroom? What if it\rquote s in \endash \rquote 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote \endash  Moaning Myrtle\rquote s bathroom,\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  said Harry.
\par They sat there, excitement coursing through them, hardly able to believe it.
\par \lquote This means,\rquote  said Harry, \lquote I can\rquote t be the only Parselmouth in the school. The heir of Slytherin\rquote s one, too. That\rquote s how they\rquote ve been controlling the Basilisk.\rquote 
\par \lquote What\rquote re we going to do?\rquote  said Ron, whose eyes were flashing. \lquote Shall we go straight to McGonagall?\rquote 
\par \lquote Let\rquote s go to the staff room,\rquote  said Harry, jumping up. \lquote She\rquote ll be there in ten minutes, it\rquote s nearly break.\rquote 
\par They ran downstairs. Not wanting to be discovered hanging around in another corridor, they went straight into the deserted staff room. It was a large, panelled room full of dark wooden chairs. Harry and Ron paced around it, too excited to sit down.
\par But the bell to signal break never came.
\par Instead, echoing through the corridors came Professor McGonagall\rquote s voice, magically magnified.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote All students to return to their house dormitories at once. All teach\-ers return to the staff room. Immediately, please.\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 
\ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par Harry wheeled around to stare at Ron.
\par \lquote Not another attack? Not now?\rquote 
\par \lquote What\rquote ll we do?\rquote  said Ron, aghast. \lquote Go back to the dormitory?\rquote 
\par \lquote No,\rquote  said Harry, glancing around. There was an ugly sort of wardrobe to his left, full of the teachers\rquote  cloaks. \lquote In here. Let\rquote s hear what it\rquote s all about. Then we can tell them what we\rquote ve found out.\rquote 

\par They hid themselves inside it, listening to the rumbling of hundreds of 
people moving overhead, and the staff-room door banging open. From between the musty folds of the cloaks, they watched the teachers filtering into the room. Some of them were looking puzzled, others downright scared. Then Professor McGonagall arrived.

\par \lquote It has happened,\rquote  she told the silent staff room. \lquote A student has been taken by the monster. Right into the Chamber itself.\rquote 
\par Professor Flitwick let out a squeal. Professor Sprout clapped her hands over her mouth. Snape gripped the back of a chair very hard and said, \lquote How can you be sure?\rquote 
\par \lquote The heir of Slytherin,\rquote  said Professor McGonagall, who was very white, \lquote left another message. Right underneath the first one. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
Her skeleton will lie in the Chamber for ever.\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par Professor Flitwick burst into tears.
\par \lquote Who is it?\rquote  said Madam Hooch, who had sunk, weak-kneed into a chair. \lquote Which student?\rquote 
\par \lquote Ginny Weasley,\rquote  said Professor McGonagall.
\par Harry felt Ron slide silently down onto the wardrobe floor beside him.
\par \lquote We shall have to send all the students home tomorrow,\rquote  said Professor McGonagall. \lquote This is the end of Hogwarts. Dumbledore always said ...\rquote 
\par The staff-room door banged open again. For one wild moment, Harry was sure it would be Dumbledore. But it was Lockhart, and he was beaming.
\par \lquote So sorry \endash  dozed off \endash  what have I missed?\rquote 
\par He didn\rquote t seem to notice that the other teachers were looking at him with something remarkably like hatred. Snape stepped forward.
\par \lquote Just the man,\rquote  he said. \lquote The very man. A girl has been snatched by the monster, Lockhart. Taken into the Chamber of Secrets itself. Your moment has come at last.\rquote 
\par Lockhart blanched.
\par \lquote That\rquote s right, Gilderoy,\rquote  chipped in Professor Sprout. \lquote Weren\rquote t you saying just last night that you\rquote ve known all along where the entrance to the Chamber of Secrets is?\rquote 
\par \lquote I \endash  well, I \endash \rquote  spluttered Lockhart.
\par \lquote Yes, didn\rquote t you tell me you were sure you knew what was inside it?\rquote  piped up Professor Flitwick.
\par \lquote D-did I? I don\rquote t recall ...\rquote 
\par \lquote I certainly remember you saying you were sorry you hadn\rquote t had a crack at the monster before Hagrid was arrested,\rquote  said Snape. \lquote Didn\rquote 
t you say that the whole affair had been bungled, and that you should have been given a free rein from the first?\rquote 
\par Lockhart stared around at his stony-faced colleagues.
\par \lquote I ... I really never ... You may have misunderstood ...\rquote 
\par \lquote We\rquote ll leave it to you, then, Gilderoy,\rquote  said Professor McGonagall. \lquote Tonight will be an excellent time to do it. We\rquote ll make sure everyone\rquote s out of your way. You\rquote 
ll be able to tackle the monster all by yourself. A free rein at last.\rquote 
\par Lockhart gazed desperately around him, but nobody came to the rescue. He didn\rquote t look remotely handsome any more. His lip was trembling, and in the absence of his usually toothy grin he looked weak-chinned and weedy.
\par \lquote V-very well,\rquote  he said. \lquote I\rquote ll \endash  I\rquote ll be in my office, getting \endash  getting ready.\rquote 
\par And he left the room.
\par \lquote Right,\rquote  said Professor McGonagall, whose nostrils were flared, \lquote that\rquote s got }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 him}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  out from under our feet. The Heads of Houses should go and inform their students what has happened. Tell them the Hogwarts Express will take them hom
e first thing tomorrow. Will the rest of you please make sure no students have been left outside their dormitories.\rquote 
\par The teachers rose, and left one by one.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 *
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 It was probably the worst day of Harry\rquote 
s entire life. He, Ron, Fred and George sat together in a corner of the Gryffindor common room, unable to say anything to each other. Percy wasn\rquote t there. He had gone to send an owl to Mr and Mrs Weasley, then shut him\-self up in his dormitory.

\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 No afternoon ever lasted as long as that one, nor had Gryffindor Tower
 ever been so crowded, yet so quiet. Near sunset, Fred and George went up to bed, unable to sit there any longer.
\par \lquote She knew something, Harry,\rquote  said Ron, speaking for the first time since they had entered the wardrobe in the staff room. \lquote That\rquote s why she was taken. It wasn\rquote t some stupid thing about Percy at all. She\rquote 
d found out something about the Chamber of Secrets. That must be why she was \endash \rquote  Ron rubbed his eyes frantically. \lquote I mean, she was a pure-blood. There can\rquote t be any other reason.\rquote 
\par Harry could see the sun sinking, blood red, below the skyline. This was the worst he had ever felt. If only there was something they could do. Anything.
\par \lquote Harry,\rquote  said Ron, \lquote d\rquote you think there\rquote s any chance at all she\rquote s not \endash  you know \endash \rquote 
\par Harry didn\rquote t know what to say. He couldn\rquote t see how Ginny could still be alive.
\par \lquote D\rquote you know what?\rquote  said Ron, \lquote I think we should go and see Lockhart. Tell him what we know. He\rquote s going to try and get into the Chamber. We can tell him where we think it is, and tell him it\rquote s a Basilisk in there.
\rquote 
\par Because Harry couldn\rquote t think of anything else to do, and because he wanted to be doing something, he agreed. The Gryffindors around them were so miserable, and felt so sorry for the Weasleys, that nobody tried to stop them as they got up, crosse
d the room, and left through the portrait hole.
\par Darkness was falling as they walked down to Lockhart\rquote s office. There seemed to be a lot of activity going on inside it. They could hear scraping, thumps and hurried footsteps.
\par Harry knocked and there was a sudden silence from inside. Then the door opened the tiniest crack and they saw one of Lockhart\rquote s eyes peering through it.
\par \lquote Oh ... Mr Potter ... Mr Weasley ...\rquote  he said, opening the door a mite wider. \lquote I\rquote m rather busy at the moment. If you would be quick ...\rquote 
\par \lquote Professor, we\rquote ve got some information for you,\rquote  said Harry. \lquote We think it\rquote ll help you.\rquote 
\par \lquote Er \endash  well \endash  it\rquote s not terribly \endash \rquote  The side of Lockhart\rquote s face that they could see looked very uncomfortable. \lquote I mean \endash  well \endash  all right.\rquote 
\par He opened the door and they entered.
\par His office had been almost completely stripped. Two large trunks stood open on the floor. Robes, jade green, lilac, midnight blue, had been hastily folded into one of them; books were jum\-bled untidily into the other. The photographs that had cove
red the walls were now crammed into boxes on the desk.
\par \lquote Are you going somewhere?\rquote  said Harry.
\par \lquote Er, well, yes,\rquote  said Lockhart, ripping a life-size poster of himself from the back of the door as he spoke, and starting to roll it up. \lquote Urgent call ... unavoidable ... got to go ...\rquote 
\par \lquote What about my sister?\rquote  said Ron jerkily.
\par \lquote Well, as to that \endash  most unfortunate,\rquote  said Lockhart, avoiding their eyes as he wrenched open a drawer and started emptying the contents into a bag. \lquote No one regrets more than I \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote You\rquote re the Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher!\rquote  said Harry. \lquote You can\rquote t go now! Not with all the dark stuff going on here!\rquote 
\par \lquote Well, I must say ... when I took the job ...\rquote  Lockhart muttered, now piling socks on top of his robes, \lquote nothing in the job descrip\-tion ... didn\rquote t expect ...\rquote 
\par \lquote You mean you\rquote re }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 running away?\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  said Harry disbelievingly. 
\lquote After all that stuff you did in your books?\rquote 
\par \lquote Books can be misleading,\rquote  said Lockhart delicately.
\par \lquote You wrote them!\rquote  Harry shouted.
\par \lquote My dear boy,\rquote  said Lockhart, straightening up and frowning at Harry. \lquote Do use your common sense. My books wouldn\rquote t have sold half as well if people didn\rquote t think }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 I\rquote d}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
 done all those things. No one wants to read about some ugly old Armenian warlock, even if he did save a village from werewolves. He\rquote d lo
ok dreadful on the front cover. No dress sense at all. And the witch who banished the Bandon Banshee had a hairy chin. I mean, come on ...\rquote 
\par \lquote So you\rquote ve just been taking credit for what a load of other people have done?\rquote  said Harry incredulously.
\par \lquote Harry, Harry,\rquote  said Lockhart, shaking his head impatiently, \lquote it\rquote 
s not nearly as simple as that. There was work involved. I had to track these people down. Ask them exactly how they managed to do what they did. Then I had to put a Memory Charm on them so they wouldn\rquote t remember doing it. If there\rquote 
s one thing I pride myself on, it\rquote s my Memory Charms. No, it\rquote s been a lot of work, Harry. It\rquote s not all book-signings and publicity photos, you know. You want fame, you have to be prepared for a long hard slog.\rquote 
\par He banged the lids of his trunks shut and locked them.
\par \lquote Let\rquote s see,\rquote  he said. \lquote I think that\rquote s everything. Yes. Only one thing left.\rquote 
\par He pulled out his wand and turned to them.
\par \lquote Awfully sorry, boys, but I\rquote ll have to put a Memory Charm on you now. Can\rquote t have you blabbing my secrets all over the place. I\rquote d never sell another book ...\rquote 
\par Harry reached his wand just in time. Lockhart had barely raised his, when Harry bellowed, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Expelliarmus!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par Lockhart was blasted backwards, falling over his trunk. His wand flew high into the air; Ron caught it, and flung it out of the open window.
\par \lquote Shouldn\rquote t have let Professor Snape teach us that one,\rquote  said Harry furiously, kicking Lockhart\rquote s trunk aside. Lockhart was looking up at him, weedy once more. Harry was still pointing his wand at him.
\par \lquote What d\rquote you want me to do?\rquote  said Lockhart weakly. \lquote I don\rquote t know where the Chamber of Secrets is. There\rquote s nothing I can do.\rquote 
\par \lquote You\rquote re in luck,\rquote  said Harry, forcing Lockhart to his feet at wandpoint. \lquote We think }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 we}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  know where it is. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 And}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  what
\rquote s inside it. Let\rquote s go.\rquote 
\par They marched Lockhart out of his office and down the nearest stairs, along the dark corridor where the messages shone on the wall, to the door of Moaning Myrtle\rquote s bathroom.
\par They sent Lockhart in first. Harry was pleased to see that he was shaking.
\par Moaning Myrtle was sitting on the cistern of the end toilet.
\par \lquote Oh, it\rquote s you,\rquote  she said, when she saw Harry. \lquote What do you want this time?\rquote 
\par \lquote To ask you how you died,\rquote  said Harry.
\par Myrtle\rquote s whole aspect changed at once. She looked as though she had never been asked such a flattering question.
\par \lquote Ooooh, it was dreadful,\rquote  she said with relish. \lquote It happened right in here. I died in this very cubicle. I remember it so well. I\rquote d hidden because Olive Hornby was teasing me about my glasses. The door was 
locked, and I was crying, and then I heard some\-body come in. They said something funny. A different language, I think it must have been. Anyway, what really got me was that it was a }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 boy}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  speaking. So I unlocked the door, to tell him to go and use his own toilet, and then \endash \rquote 
 Myrtle swelled importantly, her face shining, \lquote I }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 died.\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par \lquote How?\rquote  said Harry.
\par \lquote No idea,\rquote  said Myrtle in hushed tones. \lquote I just remember seeing a pair of great big yellow eyes. My whole body sort of seized up, and then I was floating away ...\rquote  She looked dreamily at Harry. \lquote 
And then I came back again. I was determined to haunt Olive Hornby, you see. Oh, she was sorry she\rquote d ever laughed at my glasses.\rquote 
\par \lquote Where exactly did you see the eyes?\rquote  said Harry.
\par \lquote Somewhere there,\rquote  said Myrtle, pointing vaguely towards the sink in front of her toilet.
\par Harry and Ron hurried over to it. Lockhart was standing well back, a look of utter terror on his face.
\par It looked like an ordinary sink. They examined every inch of it, inside and out, including the pipes below. And then Harry saw it: scratched on the side of one of the copper taps was a tiny snake.
\par \lquote That tap\rquote s never worked,\rquote  said Myrtle brightly, as he tried to turn it.
\par \lquote Harry,\rquote  said Ron, \lquote say something. Something in Parseltongue.\rquote 
\par \lquote But \endash \rquote  Harry thought hard. The only times he\rquote d ever managed to speak Parseltongue were when he\rquote d been faced with a real snake. He stared hard at the tiny engraving, trying to imagine it was real.
\par \lquote Open up,\rquote  he said.
\par He looked at Ron, who shook his head.
\par \lquote English,\rquote  he said.
\par Harry looked back at the snake, willing himself to believe it was alive. If he moved his head, the candlelight made it look as though it was moving.
\par \lquote Open up,\rquote  he said.
\par Except that the words weren\rquote t what he heard; a strange hissing had escaped him, and at once the t
ap glowed with a brilliant white light and began to spin. Next second, the sink began to move. The sink, in fact, sank, right out of sight, leaving a large pipe exposed, a pipe wide enough for a man to slide into.
\par Harry heard Ron gasp and looked up again. He had made up his mind what he was going to do.
\par \lquote I\rquote m going down there,\rquote  he said.
\par He couldn\rquote t not go, not now they had found the entrance to the Chamber, not if there was even the faintest, slimmest, wildest chance that Ginny might be alive.
\par \lquote Me too,\rquote  said Ron.
\par There was a pause.
\par \lquote Well, you hardly seem to need me,\rquote  said Lockhart, with a shadow of his old smile. \lquote I\rquote ll just \endash \rquote 
\par He put his hand on the door knob, but Ron and Harry both pointed their wands at him.
\par \lquote You can go first,\rquote  Ron snarled.
\par White-faced and wandless, Lockhart approached the opening.
\par \lquote Boys,\rquote  he said, his voice feeble, \lquote boys, what good will it do?\rquote 
\par Harry jabbed him in the back with his wand. Lockhart slid his legs into the pipe.
\par \lquote I really don\rquote t think \endash \rquote  he started to say, but Ron gave him a push, and he slid out of sight. Harry followed quickly. He lowered himself slowly into the pipe, then let go.
\par It was like rushing down an endless, slimy, dark slide. He could see more pipes branching off in all direct
ions, but none as large as theirs, which twisted and turned, sloping steeply downwards, and he knew that he was falling deeper below the school than even the dungeons. Behind him he could hear Ron, thudding slightly at the curves.
\par And then, just as he had 
begun to worry about what would happen when he hit the ground, the pipe levelled out, and he shot out of the end with a wet thud, landing on the damp floor of a dark stone tunnel, large enough to stand in. Lockhart was getting to his feet a little way awa
y, covered in slime and white as a ghost. Harry stood aside as Ron came whizzing out of the pipe, too.
\par \lquote We must be miles under the school,\rquote  said Harry, his voice echo\-ing in the black tunnel.
\par \lquote Under the lake, probably,\rquote  said Ron, squinting around at the dark, slimy walls.
\par All three of them turned to stare into the darkness ahead.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Lumos!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Harry muttered to his wand and it lit again. \lquote C
\rquote mon,\rquote  he said to Ron and Lockhart, and off they went, their footsteps slapping loudly on the wet floor.
\par The tunnel was so dark that they could only see a little distance ahead. Their shadows on the wet walls looked monstrous in the wandlight.
\par \lquote Remember,\rquote  Harry said quietly, as they walked cautiously for\-ward, \lquote any sign of movement, close your eyes straight away ...\rquote 
\par But the tunnel was quiet as the grave, and the first unexpected sound they heard was a loud }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 crunch}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  as Ron stepped on what turned out to be a rat\rquote s skull. Harry lowered his wand to look at the floor and saw that it was littered with small animal bones. Trying very har
d not to imagine what Ginny might look like if they found her, Harry led the way forward, round a dark bend in the tunnel.
\par \lquote Harry, there\rquote s something up there ...\rquote  said Ron hoarsely grabbing Harry\rquote s shoulder.
\par They froze, watching. Harry could just see the outline of some\-thing huge and curved, lying right across the tunnel. It wasn\rquote t moving.
\par \lquote Maybe it\rquote s asleep,\rquote  he breathed, glancing back at the other two. Lockhart\rquote s hands were pressed over his eyes. Harry turned back to look at the thing, his heart beating so fast it hurt.
\par Very slowly, his eyes as narrow as he could make them and still see, Harry edged forward, his wand held high.
\par The light slid over a gigantic snake skin, of a vivid, poisonous green, lying curled and empty across the tunnel floor. The creature that had shed it must have been twenty feet long at least.
\par \lquote Blimey,\rquote  said Ron weakly.
\par There was a sudden movement behind them. Gilderoy Lockhart\rquote s knees had given way.
\par \lquote Get up,\rquote  said Ron sharply, pointing his wand at Lockhart.
\par Lockhart got to his feet \endash  then he dived at Ron, knocking him to the ground.
\par Harry jumped forward, but too late. Lockhart was straightening up, panting, Ron\rquote s wand in his hand and a gleaming smile back on his face.
\par \lquote The adventure ends here, boys!\rquote  he said. \lquote I shall take a bit of this skin back up to the school, tell them I was too late to save the girl, and that you two }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 tragically}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  lost your minds at the sight of her mangled body. Say goodbye to your memories!\rquote 
\par He raised Ron\rquote s Spellotaped wand high over his head and yelled, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Obliviate!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par The wand exploded with the force of a small bomb. Harry flung his arms over his head and ran, slipping over the coils of snake skin, out of the way of great chunks of tunnel ceiling which were thundering to the floor. Next moment, he was standing alon
e, gazing at a solid wall of broken rock.
\par \lquote Ron!\rquote  he shouted. \lquote Are you OK? Ron!\rquote 
\par \lquote I\rquote m here!\rquote  came Ron\rquote s muffled voice from behind the rockfall. \lquote I\rquote m OK. This git\rquote s not, though \endash  he got blasted by the wand.\rquote 
\par There was a dull thud and a loud \lquote ow!\rquote . It sounded as though Ron had just kicked Lockhart in the shins.
\par \lquote What now?\rquote  Ron\rquote s voice said, sounding desperate. \lquote We can\rquote t get through. It\rquote ll take ages ...\rquote 
\par Harry looked up at the tunnel ceiling. Huge cracks had appeared in it. He had never tried to break apart anything as large as these rocks by magic, and now didn\rquote t seem a good moment to try \endash  what if the whole tunnel caved in?
\par There was another thud and another \lquote ow!\rquote  from behind the rocks. They were wasting time. Ginny had already been in the Chamber of Secrets for hours. Harry knew there was only one thing to do.
\par \lquote Wait there,\rquote  he called to Ron. \lquote Wait with Lockhart. I\rquote ll go on. If I\rquote m not back in an hour ...\rquote 
\par There was a very pregnant pause.
\par \lquote I\rquote ll try and shift some of this rock,\rquote  said Ron, who seemed to be trying to keep his voice steady. \lquote So you can \endash  can get back through. And, Harry \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote See you in a bit,\rquote  said Harry, trying to inject some confidence into his shaking voice.
\par And he set off alone past the giant snake skin.
\par Soon the distant noise of Ron straining to shift the rocks was gone. The tunnel turned and turned again. Every nerve in Harry\rquote s body was tingling unpleasantly. He wanted the tunnel to end, yet dreaded what he\rquote 
d find when it did. And then, at last, as he crept around yet another bend, he saw a solid wall ahead on which two entwined serpents were carved, their eyes set with great, glinting emeralds.
\par Harry approached, his throat very dry. There was no need to pretend these stone snakes were real, their eyes looked strangely alive.
\par He could guess what he had to do. He cleared his throat, and the emerald eyes seemed to flicker.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Open,\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  said Harry, in a low, faint hiss.
\par The serpents parted as the wall cracked open, the halves slid smoothly out of sight, and Harry, shaking from head to foot, walked inside.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \page 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \emdash  CHAPTER SEVENTEEN \emdash 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sa280\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs56 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs56\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 The Heir of Slytherin
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sa280\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
He was standing at the end of a very long, dimly lit chamber. Towering stone pillars entwined with more carved serpents rose to support a ceiling lost in darkness, casting long black shadows through the odd, greenish gloom that filled the place.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 His heart 
beating very fast, Harry stood listening to the chill silence. Could the Basilisk be lurking in a shadowy corner, behind a pillar? And where was Ginny?
\par He pulled out his wand and moved forward between the ser\-pentine columns. Every careful footstep echoed 
loudly off the shadowy walls. He kept his eyes narrowed, ready to clamp them shut at the smallest sign of movement. The hollow eye sockets of the stone snakes seemed to be following him. More than once, with a jolt of the stomach, he thought he saw one st
ir.
\par Then, as he drew level with the last pair of pillars, a statue high as the Chamber itself loomed into view, standing against the back wall.
\par Harry had to crane his neck to look up into the giant face above: it was ancient and monkey-like, with a long thin beard that fell almost to the bottom of the wizard\rquote 
s sweeping stone robes, where two enormous grey feet stood on the smooth chamber floor. And between the feet, face down, lay a small, black-robed figure with flaming red hair.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Ginny!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Harry muttered, sp
rinting to her and dropping to his knees. \lquote Ginny! Don\rquote t be dead! Please don\rquote t be dead!\rquote  He flung his wand aside, grabbed Ginny\rquote 
s shoulders and turned her over. Her face was white as marble, and as cold, yet her eyes were closed, so she wasn\rquote t Petrified. But then she must be ...
\par \lquote Ginny, please wake up,\rquote  Harry muttered desperately, shaking her. Ginny\rquote s head lolled hopelessly from side to side.
\par \lquote She won\rquote t wake,\rquote  said a soft voice.
\par Harry jumped and spun around on his knees.
\par A tall, black-haired boy was leaning against the nearest pillar, watching. He was strangely blurred around the edges, as though Harry was looking at him through a misted window. But there was no mistaking him.
\par \lquote Tom \endash  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Tom Riddle?\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par Riddle nodded, not taking his eyes off Harry\rquote s face.
\par \lquote What d\rquote you mean, she won\rquote t wake?\rquote  Harry said desperately. \lquote She\rquote s not \endash  she\rquote s not \endash ?\rquote 
\par \lquote She\rquote s still alive,\rquote  said Riddle. \lquote But only just.\rquote 
\par Harry stared at him. Tom Riddle had been at Hogwarts fifty years ago, yet here he stood, a weird, misty light shining about him, not a day older than sixteen.
\par \lquote Are you a ghost?\rquote  Harry said uncertainly.
\par \lquote A memory,\rquote  said Riddle quietly. \lquote Preserved in a diary for fifty years.\rquote 
\par He pointed towards the floor near the statue\rquote s giant toes. Lying open there was the little black diary Harry had found in Moaning Myrtle\rquote s bathroom. For a second, Harry wondered how it had got there \endash 
 but there were more pressing matters to deal with.
\par \lquote You\rquote ve got to help me, Tom,\rquote  Harry said, raising Ginny\rquote s head again. \lquote We\rquote ve got to get her out of here. There\rquote s a Basilisk ... I don\rquote 
t know where it is, but it could be along any moment. Please, help me ...\rquote 
\par Riddle didn\rquote t move. Harry, sweating, managed to hoist Ginny half off the floor, and bent to pick up his wand again.
\par But his wand had gone.
\par \lquote Did you see \endash ?\rquote 
\par He looked up. Riddle was still watching him \endash  twirling Harry\rquote s wand between his long fingers.
\par \lquote Thanks,\rquote  said Harry, stretching out his hand for it.
\par A smile curled the corners of Riddle\rquote s mouth. He continued to stare at Harry, twirling the wand idly.
\par \lquote Listen,\rquote  said Harry urgently, his knees sagging with Ginny\rquote s dead weight, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote we\rquote ve got to go!}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  If the Basilisk comes ...\rquote 
\par \lquote It won\rquote t come until it is called,\rquote  said Riddle calmly.
\par Harry lowered Ginny back onto the floor, unable to hold her up any longer.
\par \lquote What d\rquote you mean?\rquote  he said. \lquote Look, give me my wand, I might need it.\rquote 
\par Riddle\rquote s smile broadened.
\par \lquote You won\rquote t be needing it,\rquote  he said.
\par Harry stared at him.
\par \lquote What d\rquote you mean, I won\rquote t be \endash ?\rquote 
\par \lquote I\rquote ve waited a long time for this, Harry Potter,\rquote  said Riddle. \lquote For the chance to see you. To speak to you.\rquote 
\par \lquote Look,\rquote  said Harry, losing patience, \lquote I don\rquote t think you get it. We\rquote re in the }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Chamber of Secrets.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  We can talk later.\rquote 
\par \lquote We\rquote re going to talk now,\rquote  said Riddle, still smiling broadly, and he pocketed Harry\rquote s wand.
\par Harry stared at him. There was something very funny going on here.
\par \lquote How did Ginny get like this?\rquote  he asked slowly.
\par \lquote Well, that\rquote s an interesting question,\rquote  said Riddle pleasantly. \lquote And quite a long story. I suppose the real reason Ginny Weasley\rquote s like this is because she ope
ned her heart and spilled all her secrets to an invisible stranger.\rquote 
\par \lquote What are you talking about?\rquote  said Harry.
\par \lquote The diary,\rquote  said Riddle. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote My}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  diary. Little Ginny\rquote 
s been writing in it for months and months, telling me all her pitiful worries and woes: how her brothers }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 tease}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  her, how she had to come to school with second-hand robes and books, how \endash \rquote  Riddle\rquote s eyes glinted \lquote \endash  how she didn\rquote 
t think famous, good, great Harry Potter would }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 ever}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  like her ...\rquote 
\par All the time he spoke, Riddle\rquote s eyes never left Harry\rquote s face. There was an almost hungry look in them.
\par \lquote It\rquote s very }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 boring,}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
 having to listen to the silly little troubles of an eleven-year-old girl,\rquote  he went on. \lquote But I was patient. I wrote back, I was sympathetic, I was kind. Ginny simply }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 loved}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  me. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 No one\rquote 
s ever understood me like you, Tom ... I\rquote m so glad I\rquote ve got this diary to con\-fide in ... It\rquote s like having a friend I can carry round in my pocket }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
...\rquote 
\par Riddle laughed, a high, cold laugh that didn\rquote t suit him. It made the hairs stand up on the back of Harry\rquote s neck.
\par \lquote If I say it myself, Harry, I\rquote 
ve always been able to charm the people I needed. So Ginny poured out her soul to me, and her soul happened to be exactly what I wanted. I grew stronger and stronger on a diet of her deepest fears, her darkest secrets. I gr
ew powerful, far more powerful than little Miss Weasley. Powerful enough to start feeding Miss Weasley a few of }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 my}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  secrets, to start pouring a little of }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 my}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  soul back into }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 her }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 ...
\rquote 
\par \lquote What d\rquote you mean?\rquote  said Harry, whose mouth had gone very dry.
\par \lquote Haven\rquote t you guessed yet, Harry Potter?\rquote  said Riddle softly. \lquote 
Ginny Weasley opened the Chamber of Secrets. She strangled the school roosters and daubed threatening messages on the walls. She set the serpent of Slytherin on four Mudbloods, and the Squib\rquote s cat.\rquote 
\par \lquote No,\rquote  Harry whispered.
\par \lquote Yes,\rquote  said Riddle, calmly. \lquote Of course, she didn\rquote t }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 know}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  what she was doing at first. It was very amusing. I wish you could have seen her new diary entries ... Far more interesting, they became ... }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Dear Tom,\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  he recited, watching Harry\rquote s horrified face, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote I think I\rquote m losing my memory. There are rooster feathers all over my robes and I don\rquote t know how they got there. Dear Tom, I can\rquote 
t remember what I did on the night of Hallowe\rquote en, but a cat was attacked and I\rquote ve got paint all down my front. Dear Tom, Percy keeps telling me I\rquote m pale and I\rquote 
m not myself. I think he suspects me ... There was another attack today and I don\rquote t know where I was. Tom, what am I going to do? I think I\rquote m going mad ... I think I\rquote m the one attacking everyone, Tom!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 
\ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par Harry\rquote s fists were clenched, the nails digging deep into his palms.
\par \lquote It took a very long time for stupid little Ginny to stop trusting her diary,\rquote  said Riddle. \lquote But she finally became suspicious and tried to dispose of it. And that\rquote s where }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 you}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  came in, Harry. You found it, and I couldn\rquote 
t have been more delighted. Of all the people who could have picked it up, it was }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 you,}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  the very person I was most anxious to meet ...\rquote 
\par \lquote And why did you want to meet me?\rquote  said Harry. Anger was coursing through him and it was an effort to keep his voice steady.
\par \lquote Well, you see, Ginny told me all about you, Harry,\rquote  said Riddle. \lquote Your whole }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 fascinating}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  history.\rquote  His eyes roved over the lightning scar on Harry\rquote s forehead, and his expression grew hungrier. \lquote I knew I must find out more abou
t you, talk to you, meet you if I could. So I decided to show you my famous capture of that great oaf, Hagrid, to gain your trust.\rquote 
\par \lquote Hagrid\rquote s my friend,\rquote  said Harry, his voice now shaking. \lquote And you framed him, didn\rquote t you? I thought you made a mistake, but \endash \rquote 
\par Riddle laughed his high laugh again.
\par \lquote It was my word against Hagrid\rquote s, Harry. Well, you can imagine how it looked to old Armando Dippet. On the one hand, Tom Riddle, poor but brilliant, parentless but so }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 brave,}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  school Prefect, model student; on the othe
r hand, big, blundering Hagrid, in trouble every other week, trying to raise werewolf cubs under his bed, sneaking off to the Forbidden Forest to wrestle trolls. But I admit, even }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 I}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  was surprised how well the plan worked. I thought }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 someone}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  must realise that Hagrid couldn\rquote t possibly be the heir of Slytherin. It had taken }{\rtlch\fcs1 
\ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 me}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
 five whole years to find out everything I could about the Chamber of Secrets and discover the secret entrance ... as though Hagrid had the brains, or the power!
\par \lquote Only the Transfiguration 
teacher, Dumbledore, seemed to think Hagrid was innocent. He persuaded Dippet to keep Hagrid and train him as gamekeeper. Yes, I think Dumbledore might have guessed. Dumbledore never seemed to like me as much as the other teachers did ...\rquote 
\par \lquote I bet Dumbledore saw right through you,\rquote  said Harry, his teeth gritted.
\par \lquote Well, he certainly kept an annoyingly close watch on me after Hagrid was expelled,\rquote  said Riddle carelessly. \lquote I knew it wouldn\rquote t be safe to open the Chamber again while I was still at school. But I wasn\rquote 
t going to waste those long years I\rquote 
d spent searching for it. I decided to leave behind a diary, preserving my sixteen-year-old self in its pages, so that one day, with luck, I would be able to lead another in my footsteps, and finish Salazar Slytherin\rquote s noble work.\rquote 
\par \lquote Well, you haven\rquote t finished it,\rquote  said Harry triumphantly. \lquote No one\rquote s died this time, not even the cat. In a few hours the Mandrake Draught will be ready and everyone who was Petrified will be all right again.\rquote 

\par \lquote Haven\rquote t I already told you,\rquote  said Riddle quietly, \lquote that killing Mudbloods doesn\rquote t matter to me any more? For many months now, my new target has been \endash  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 you.\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par Harry stared at him.
\par \lquote Imagine how angry I was when the next time my diary was opened, it was Ginny who was writing to me, not you
. She saw you with the diary, you see, and panicked. What if you found out how to work it, and I repeated all her secrets to you? What if, even worse, I told you who\rquote 
d been strangling roosters? So the foolish little brat waited until your dormitory was deserted and stole it back. But I knew what I must do. It was clear to me that you were on the trail of Slytherin\rquote 
s heir. From everything Ginny had told me about you, I knew you would go to any lengths to solve the mystery \endash  particularly if one of your best f
riends was attacked. And Ginny had told me the whole school was buzzing because you could speak Parseltongue ...
\par \lquote So I made Ginny write her own farewell on the wall and come down here to wait. She struggled and cried and became }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 very}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  bor\-ing. But there isn\rquote 
t much life left in her: she put too much into the diary, into me. Enough to let me leave its pages at last. I have been waiting for you to appear since we arrived here. I knew you\rquote d come. I have many questions for you, Harry Potter.\rquote 
\par \lquote Like what?\rquote  Harry spat, fists still clenched.
\par \lquote Well,\rquote  said Riddle, smiling pleasantly, \lquote how is it that a baby with no extraordinary magical talent managed to defeat the greatest wizard of all time? How did }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 you}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  escape with nothing but a scar, while Lord Voldemort\rquote s powers were destroyed?\rquote 
\par There was an odd red gleam in his hungry eyes now.
\par \lquote Why do you care how I escaped?\rquote  said Harry slowly. \lquote Voldemort was after your time.\rquote 
\par \lquote Voldemort,\rquote  said Riddle softly, \lquote is my past, present and future, Harry Potter ...\rquote 
\par He pulled Harry\rquote s wand from his pocket and began to trace it through the air, writing three shimmering words:
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 TOM MARVOLO RIDDLE
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Then he waved the wand once, and the letters of his name re\-arranged themselves:
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 I AM LORD VOLDEMORT
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote You see?\rquote  he whispered. \lquote It was a name I was alr
eady using at Hogwarts, to my most intimate friends only, of course. You think I was going to use my filthy Muggle father\rquote s name for ever? I, in whose veins runs the blood of Salazar Slytherin himself, through my mother\rquote 
s side? I, keep the name of a foul, 
common Muggle, who abandoned me even before I was born, just because he found out his wife was a witch? No, Harry. I fashioned myself a new name, a name I knew wizards everywhere would one day fear to speak, when I had become the greatest sorcerer in the 
world!\rquote 
\par Harry\rquote s brain seemed to have jammed. He stared numbly at Riddle, at the orphaned boy who had grown up to murder Harry\rquote s own parents, and so many others ... At last he forced himself to speak.
\par \lquote You\rquote re not,\rquote  he said, his quiet voice full of hatred.
\par \lquote Not what?\rquote  snapped Riddle.
\par \lquote Not the greatest sorcerer in the world,\rquote  said Harry, breathing fast. \lquote Sorry to disappoint you, and all that, but the greatest wizard in the world is Albus Dumbledore. Everyone says so. Even when you were strong, you didn\rquote 
t dare try and take over at Hogwarts. Dumbledore saw through you when you were at school and he still frightens you now, wherever you\rquote re hiding these days.\rquote 
\par The smile had gone from Riddle\rquote s face, to be replaced by a very ugly look.
\par \lquote Dumbledore\rquote s been driven out of this castle by the mere }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 memory}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
 of me!\rquote  he hissed.
\par \lquote He\rquote s not as gone as you might think!\rquote  Harry retorted. He was speaking at random, wanting to scare Riddle, wishing rather than believing it to be true.
\par Riddle opened his mouth, but froze.
\par Music was coming from somewhere. Riddle whirled around to stare down the empty chamber. The music was growing louder. It was eerie, spine-tingling, unearthly; it lifted the hair on Harry\rquote 
s scalp and made his heart feel as though it was swelling to twice its normal size. Then, as the music reached such a pitch that Harry felt it vibrating inside his own ribs, flames erupted at the top of the nearest pillar.
\par A crimson bird the size of a swan had appeared, piping its weird music to the vaulted ceiling. It had a glittering golden tail as long as a peacock\rquote s and gleaming golden talons, which were grip\-ping a ragged bundle.
\par A second later, the bird was flying straight at Harry. It dropped the ragged thing it was carrying at his feet, then landed heavily on his shoulder. As it fol
ded its great wings, Harry looked up and saw it had a long, sharp golden beak and beady black eyes.
\par The bird stopped singing. It sat still and warm next to Harry\rquote s cheek, gazing steadily at Riddle.
\par \lquote That\rquote s a phoenix ...\rquote  said Riddle, staring shrewdly back at it.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Fawkes?\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Harry breathed, and he felt the bird\rquote 
s golden claws squeeze his shoulder gently.
\par \lquote And }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 that \endash \rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
 said Riddle, now eyeing the ragged thing that Fawkes had dropped, \lquote that\rquote s the old school Sorting Hat.\rquote 
\par So it was. Patched, frayed and dirty, the Hat lay motionless at Harry\rquote s feet.
\par Riddle began to laugh again. He laughed so hard that the dark chamber rang with it, as though ten Riddles were laughing at once.
\par \lquote This is what Dumbledore sends his defender! A songbird and an old hat! Do you feel brave, Harry Potter? Do you feel safe now?\rquote 
\par Harry didn\rquote t answer. He might not see what use Fawkes or the Sorting Hat were, but he was no longer alone, and he waited with mounting courage for Riddle to stop laughing.
\par \lquote To business, Harry,\rquote  said Riddle, still smiling broadly. \lquote Twice \endash  in }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 your}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  past, in }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 my}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  future \endash 
 we have met. And twice I failed to kill you. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 How did you survive?}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
 Tell me everything. The longer you talk,\rquote  he added softly, \lquote the longer you stay alive.\rquote 
\par Harry was thinking fast, weighing his chances. Riddle
 had the wand. He, Harry, had Fawkes and the Sorting Hat, neither of which would be much good in a duel. It looked bad, all right. But the longer Riddle stood there, the more life was dwindling out of Ginny ... and in the meantime, Harry noticed suddenly,
 Riddle\rquote s outline was becoming clearer, more solid. If it had to be a fight between him and Riddle, better sooner than later.
\par \lquote No one knows why you lost your powers when you attacked me,\rquote  said Harry abruptly. \lquote I don\rquote t know myself. But I know why you couldn\rquote t }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 kill}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  me. Because my mother died to save me. My common }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Muggle-born}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  mother,\rquote  he added, shaking with suppressed rage. \lquote She stopped you killing me. And I\rquote 
ve seen the real you, I saw you last year. You\rquote re a wreck. You\rquote re barely alive. That\rquote s where all your power got you. You\rquote re in hiding. You\rquote re ugly, you\rquote re foul!\rquote 
\par Riddle\rquote s face contorted. Then he forced it into an awful smile.
\par \lquote So. Your mother died to save you. Yes, that\rquote s a powerful counter-charm. I can see now \endash  there is nothing special about you, after all. I wondered, you see. Because there are strange like\-
nesses between us, Harry Potter. Even you must have noticed. Both half-bloods, orphans, raised by Muggles. Probably the only two Parselmouths to come to Hogwarts since the great Slytherin himself. We even }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 look}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  something alike ... But after all, it was merely a lucky chance that saved you from me. That\rquote 
s all I wanted to know.\rquote 
\par Harry stood, tense, waiting for Riddle to raise his wand. But Riddle\rquote s twisted smile was widening again.
\par \lquote Now, Harry, I\rquote m going to teach you a little lesson. Let\rquote s match the powers of Lord Voldemort, heir of Salazar Slytherin, against famous Harry Potter, and the best weapons Dumbledore can give him.\rquote 
\par He cast an amused eye over Fawkes and the Sorting Hat, then walked away. Harry, fea
r spreading up his numb legs, watched Riddle stop between the high pillars and look up into the stone face of Slytherin, high above him in the half-darkness. Riddle opened his mouth wide and hissed \endash  but Harry understood what he was saying.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Speak to me, Slytherin, greatest of the Hogwarts Four.\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par Harry wheeled around to look up at the statue, Fawkes swaying on his shoulder.
\par Slytherin\rquote s gigantic stone face was moving. Horror-struck, Harry saw his mouth opening, wider and wider, to make a huge black hole.
\par And something was stirring inside the statue\rquote s mouth. Something was slithering up from its depths.
\par Harry backed away until he hit the dark Chamber wall, and as he shut his eyes tight he felt Fawkes\rquote s wing sweep his cheek as he took flight. Harry wanted to shout, \lquote Don\rquote t leave me!\rquote 
 but what chance did a phoenix have against the king of serpents?
\par Something huge hit the stone floor of the chamber, Harry felt it shudder. He knew what was happening, he could sense it, could almost see the giant serpent uncoiling itself from Slytherin\rquote s mouth. Then he heard Riddle\rquote s hissing voice: }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Kill him.\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par The Basilisk was moving towards Harry, he could hear its heavy body slithering ponderously across the dusty floor. Eyes still tight\-ly shut, Harry began to run blindly sideways, his hands out\-stretched, feeling his way. Riddle was laughing ...
\par Harry tripped. He fell hard onto the stone and tasted blood. The serpent was barely feet from him, he could hear it coming.
\par There was a loud, explosive spitting sound right above him and then something heavy hit Harry so hard that he was smashed against the wall. Waiting for fangs to sink through his body he heard more mad hissing, something thrashing wildly off the pillars.

\par He couldn\rquote t help it. He opened his eyes wide enough to squint at what was going on.
\par The enormous serpent, bright, poisonous green, thick as an oak trunk, had raised itself high in the air and its great blunt head was weaving drunkenly between the pillars. As Harry trembled, ready to close his eyes if it turned, he saw w
hat had distracted the snake.
\par Fawkes was soaring around its head, and the Basilisk was snapping furiously at him with fangs long and thin as sabres.
\par Fawkes dived. His long golden beak sank out of sight and a sudden shower of dark blood spattered the floor. The snake\rquote 
s tail thrashed, narrowly missing Harry, and before Harry could shut his eyes, it turned. Harry looked straight into its face, and saw that its eyes, both its great bulbous yellow eyes, had been punctured by the phoenix; blood was streaming to t
he floor and the snake was spitting in agony.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote No!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Harry heard Riddle screaming. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 
\ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Leave the bird! Leave the bird! The boy is behind you! You can still smell him! Kill him!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 

\par The blinded serpent swayed, confused, still deadly. Fawkes was circling its head, piping his eerie song, jabbing here and there at the Basilisk\rquote s scaly nose as the blood poured from its ruined eyes.
\par \lquote Help me, help me,\rquote  Harry muttered wildly, \lquote someone, anyone!\rquote 
\par The snake\rquote s tail whipped across the floor again. Harry ducked. Something soft hit his face.
\par The Basilisk had swept the Sorting Hat into Harry\rquote s arms. Harry seized it. It was all he had left, his only chance. He rammed it onto his head and threw himself flat onto the floor as the Basilisk\rquote s tail swung over him again.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Help me }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 ... }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 help me ...\rquote  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Harry thought, his eyes screwed tight under the Hat. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Please help me!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par There was no answering voice. Instead, the Hat contracted, as though an invisible hand was squeezing it very tightly.
\par Something very hard and heavy thudded onto the top of Harry\rquote s head, almost knocking him out. Stars winking in front of his eyes, he grabbed the top of the Hat to pull it off and felt something long and hard beneath it.
\par A gleaming silver sword had appeared inside the Hat, its handle glittering with rubies the size of eggs.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Kill the boy! Leave the bird! The boy is behind you! Sniff \endash  smell him!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par Harry was on his feet, ready. The Basilisk\rquote s head was falling, its body coiling around, hitting pillars as it twisted to face him. He could see the vast, bloody eye socke
ts, see the mouth stretching wide, wide enough to swallow him whole, lined with fangs long as his sword, thin, glittering, venomous ...
\par It lunged blindly. Harry dodged and it hit the Chamber wall. It lunged again, and its forked tongue lashed Harry\rquote s side. He raised the sword in both his hands.
\par The Basilisk lunged again, and this time its aim was true. Harry threw his whole weight behind the sword and drove it to the hilt into the roof of the serpent\rquote s mouth.
\par But as warm blood drenched Harry\rquote s arms, he felt a searing pain just above his elbow. One long, poisonous fang was sinking deep\-er and deeper into his arm and it splintered as the Basilisk keeled over sideways and fell, twitching, to the floor.

\par Harry slid down the wall. He gripped the fang that was spread\-
ing poison through his body and wrenched it out of his arm. But he knew it was too late. White-hot pain was spreading slowly and steadily from the wound. Even as he dropped the fang and watched his own blood soaking his robes, his vision went foggy. The
 Chamber was dissolving in a whirl of dull colour.
\par A patch of scarlet swam past and Harry heard a soft clatter of claws beside him.
\par \lquote Fawkes,\rquote  said Harry thickly. \lquote You were brilliant, Fawkes ...\rquote  He felt the bird lay its beautiful head on the spot where the serpent\rquote s fang had pierced him.
\par He could hear echoing footsteps and then a dark shadow moved in front of him.
\par \lquote You\rquote re dead, Harry Potter,\rquote  said Riddle\rquote s voice above him. \lquote Dead. Even Dumbledore\rquote s bird knows it. Do you see what he\rquote s doing, Potter? He\rquote s crying.\rquote 
\par Harry blinked. Fawkes\rquote s head slid in and out of focus. Thick, pearly tears were trickling down the glossy feathers.
\par \lquote I\rquote m going to sit here and watch you die, Harry Potter. Take your time. I\rquote m in no hurry.\rquote 
\par Harry felt drowsy. Everything around him seemed to be spin\-ning.
\par \lquote So ends the famous Harry Potter,\rquote  said Riddle\rquote s distant voice. \lquote Alone in the Chamber of Secrets, forsaken by his friends, defeated at last by the Dark Lord he so unwisely challenged. You\rquote 
ll be back with your dear Mudblood mother soon, Harry ... She bought you twelve years of borrowed time ... but Lord Voldemort got you in the end, as you knew he must.\rquote 
\par If this is dying, thought Harry, it\rquote s not so bad. Even the pain was leaving him ...
\par But was this dying? Instead of going black, the Chamber seemed to be coming back into focus. Harry gave his head a little shake and there was Fawkes, still resting his head on Harry\rquote s arm. A pearly patch of tears was shining all around the wound 
\endash  except that there }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 was}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  no wound.
\par \lquote Get away, bird,\rquote  said Riddle\rquote s voice suddenly. \lquote Get away from him. I said, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 get away!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par Harry raised his head. Riddle was pointing Harry\rquote s wand at Fawkes; there was a bang like a gun and Fawkes took flight again in a whirl of gold and scarlet.
\par \lquote Phoenix tears ...\rquote  said Riddle quietly, staring at Harry\rquote s arm. \lquote Of course ... healing powers ... I forgot ...\rquote 
\par He looked into Harry\rquote s face. \lquote But it makes no difference. In fact, I prefer it this way. Just you and me, Harry Potter ... you and me ...\rquote 
\par He raised the wand.
\par Then, in a rush of wings, Fawkes soared back overhead and something fell into Harry\rquote s lap \endash  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 the diary.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par For a split second, both Harry and Riddle, wand still raised, stared at it. Then, without thinking, without considering, as though he had meant to do it all along, Harry se
ized the Basilisk fang on the floor next to him and plunged it straight into the heart of the book.
\par There was a long, dreadful, piercing scream. Ink spurted out of the diary in torrents, streaming over Harry\rquote s hands, flooding the floor. Riddle was writhing and twisting, screaming and flailing and then ...
\par He had gone. Harry\rquote s wand fell to the floor with a clatter and there was silence. Silence except for the steady }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 drip drip}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  of ink still oozing from the diary. The Basilisk venom had burned a siz\-zling hole right through it.
\par Shaking all over, Harry pulled himself up. His head was spin\-ning as though he\rquote d just travelled miles by Floo powder. Slowly, he gathered together his wand and the Sorting Hat, and, with a huge tug, retrieved the glittering sword from the
 roof of the Basilisk\rquote s mouth.
\par Then came a faint moan from the end of the Chamber. Ginny was stirring. As Harry hurried towards her, she sat up. Her bemused eyes travelled from the huge form of the dead Basilisk, over Harry, in his blood-soaked robes, then
 to the diary in his hand. She drew a great, shuddering gasp and tears began to pour down her face.
\par \lquote Harry \endash  oh, Harry \endash  I tried to tell you at b-breakfast, but I }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 c-couldn\rquote t}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  say it in front of Percy. It was }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 me,}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Harry \endash  but I \endash  I s-swear I d-didn\rquote t mean to \endash  R-Riddle made me, he t-took me over \endash  and \endash  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 how}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  did you kill that \endash  that thing? W-where\rquote 
s Riddle? The last thing I r-remember is him coming out of the diary \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote It\rquote s all right,\rquote  said Harry, holding up the diary, and showing Ginny the fang hole, \lquote Riddle\rquote s finished. Look! Him }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 and}{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  the Basilisk. C\rquote mon, Ginny, let\rquote s get out of here \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote I\rquote m going to be expelled!\rquote  Ginny wept, as Harry helped her awkwardly to her feet. \lquote I\rquote ve looked forward to coming to Hogwarts ever since B-Bill came and n-now I\rquote ll have to leave and \endash  }{\rtlch\fcs1 
\ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 w-what\rquote ll Mum and Dad say?\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par Fawkes was waiting for them, hovering in the Cha
mber entrance. Harry urged Ginny forward; they stepped over the motionless coils of the dead Basilisk, through the echoing gloom and back into the tunnel. Harry heard the stone doors close behind them with a soft hiss.
\par After a few minutes\rquote  progress up the dark tunnel, a distant sound of slowly shifting rock reached Harry\rquote s ears.
\par \lquote Ron!\rquote  Harry yelled, speeding up. \lquote Ginny\rquote s OK! I\rquote ve got her!\rquote 
\par He heard Ron give a strangled cheer and they turned the next bend to see his eager face staring through the sizeable gap he had managed to make in the rock fall.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Ginny!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
 Ron thrust an arm through the gap in the rock to pull her through first. \lquote You\rquote re alive! I don\rquote t believe it! What happened?\rquote 
\par He tried to hug her but Ginny held him off, sobbing.
\par \lquote But you\rquote re okay, Ginny,\rquote  said Ron, beaming at her. \lquote It\rquote s over now, it\rquote s \endash  where did that bird come from?\rquote 
\par Fawkes had swooped through the gap after Ginny.
\par \lquote He\rquote s Dumbledore\rquote s,\rquote  said Harry, squeezing through himself.
\par \lquote And how come you\rquote ve got a }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 sword?\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
 said Ron, gaping at the glittering weapon in Harry\rquote s hand.
\par \lquote I\rquote ll explain when we get out of here,\rquote  said Harry, with a side\-ways glance at Ginny.
\par \lquote But \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote Later,\rquote  Harry said quickly. He didn\rquote t think it was a good idea to tell Ron yet who\rquote d been opening the Chamber, not in front of Ginny, anyway. \lquote Where\rquote s Lockhart?\rquote 
\par \lquote Back there,\rquote  said Ron, grinning and jerking his head up the tunnel towards the pipe. \lquote He\rquote s in a bad way. Come and see.\rquote 
\par Led by Fawkes, whose wide scarlet wings emitted a soft golden glow in the darkness, they walked all the way back to the mouth of the pipe. Gilderoy Lockhart was sitting there, humming placidly to himself.
\par \lquote His memory\rquote s gone,\rquote  said Ron. \lquote The Memory Charm backfired. Hit him instead of us. Hasn\rquote t got a clue who he is, or where he is, or who we are. I told him to come and wait here. He\rquote s a danger to himself.\rquote 

\par Lockhart peered good-naturedly up at them all.
\par \lquote Hello,\rquote  he said. \lquote Odd sort of place, this, isn\rquote t it? Do you live here?\rquote 
\par \lquote No,\rquote  said Ron, raising his eyebrows at Harry.
\par Harry bent down and looked up the long, dark pipe.
\par \lquote Have you thought how we\rquote re going to get back up this?\rquote  he said to Ron.
\par Ron shook his head, but Fawkes the phoenix had swooped past Harry and was now fluttering in front of him, his beady eyes bright in the dark. He was waving his long golden tail feathers. Harry looked uncertainly at him.
\par \lquote He looks like he wants you to grab hold ...\rquote  said Ron, looking perplexed. \lquote But you\rquote re much too heavy for a bird to pull up there.\rquote 
\par \lquote Fawkes,\rquote  said Harry, \lquote isn\rquote t an ordinary bird.\rquote  He turned quickly to the others. \lquote We\rquote ve got to hold on to each other. Ginny, grab Ron\rquote s hand. Professor Lockhart \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote He means you,\rquote  said Ron sharply to Lockhart.
\par \lquote You hold Ginny\rquote s other hand.\rquote 
\par Harry tucked the sword and the Sorting Hat into his belt, Ron took hold of the back of Harry\rquote s robes, and Harry reached out and took hold of Fawkes\rquote s strangely hot tail feathers.
\par An extraordinary lightness seemed to spread through his whole body, and next second, with a whoosh, they were flying upwards through the pipe. Harry could hear Lockhart dangling below him, saying, \lquote Amazing! Amazing! This is just like magic!\rquote 
 The chill air was whipping through Harry\rquote s hair, and before he\rquote d stopped enjoy\-ing the ride, it was over \endash  all four of them were hitting the wet floor of Moaning Myrtle\rquote s bathroom, and a
s Lockhart straightened his hat, the sink that hid the pipe was sliding back into place.
\par Myrtle goggled at them.
\par \lquote You\rquote re alive,\rquote  she said blankly to Harry.
\par \lquote There\rquote s no need to sound so disappointed,\rquote  he said grimly, wiping flecks of blood and slime off his glasses.
\par \lquote Oh, well ... I\rquote d just been thinking. If you had died, you\rquote d have been welcome to share my toilet,\rquote  said Myrtle, blushing silver.
\par \lquote Urgh!\rquote  said Ron, as they left the bathroom for the dark, desert\-ed corridor outside. \lquote Harry! I think Myrtle\rquote s got }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 fond}{\rtlch\fcs1 
\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  of you! You\rquote ve got competition, Ginny!\rquote 
\par But tears were still flooding silently down Ginny\rquote s face.
\par \lquote Where now?\rquote  said Ron, with an anxious look at Ginny. Harry pointed.
\par Fawkes was leading the way, glowing gold along the corridor. They strode after him, and moments later, found themselves out\-side Professor McGonagall\rquote s office.
\par Harry knocked and pushed the door open.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \page 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \emdash  CHAPTER EIGHTEEN \emdash 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sa280\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs56 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs56\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Dobby\rquote s Reward
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sa280\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs22\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 For a moment, t
here was silence as Harry, Ron, Ginny and Lockhart stood in the doorway, covered in muck and slime and (in Harry\rquote s case) blood. Then there was a scream.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Ginny!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par It was Mrs Weasley, who had been sitting crying in front of the fire. She leapt to her feet, closely followed by Mr Weasley, and both of them flung themselves on their daughter.
\par Harry, however, was looking past them. Professor Dumbledore was standing by the mantelpiece, beaming, next to Professor McGonagall, who was taking great, steadying gasps, clutching her chest. Fawkes went whooshing past Harry\rquote 
s ear and settled on Dumbledore\rquote s shoulder, just as Harry found himself and Ron being swept into Mrs Weasley\rquote s tight embrace.
\par \lquote You saved her! You saved her! }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 How}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  did you do it?\rquote 
\par \lquote I think we\rquote d all like to know that,\rquote  said Professor McGonagall weakly.
\par Mrs Weasley let go of Harry, who hesitated for a moment, then walked over to the desk and laid upon it the Sorting Hat, the ruby-encrusted sword and what remained of Riddle\rquote s diary.
\par Then he started telling them
 everything. For nearly a quarter of an hour he spoke into the rapt silence: he told them about hearing the disembodied voice, how Hermione had finally realised that he was hearing a Basilisk in the pipes; how he and Ron had followed the spiders into the 
Forest, that Aragog had told them where the last victim of the Basilisk had died; how he had guessed that Moaning Myrtle had been the victim, and that the entrance to the Chamber of Secrets might be in her bathroom ...
\par \lquote Very well,\rquote  Professor McGonagall prompted him, as he paused, \lquote so you found out where the entrance was \endash  breaking a hundred school rules into pieces along the way, I might add \endash  but how on }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 
\ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 earth}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  did you all get out of there alive, Potter?\rquote 
\par So Harry, his voice now growing hoarse from all this talking, told them about Fawkes\rquote s timely arrival and about the Sorting Hat giving him the sword. But then he faltered. He had so far avoided mentioning Riddle\rquote s diary \endash 
 or Ginny. She was standing with her head against Mrs Weasley\rquote s shoulder, and tears were still coursing silently down her cheeks. What if they expelled her? Harry thought in panic. Riddle\rquote s diary didn\rquote 
t work any more ... How could they prove it had been he who\rquote d made her do it all?
\par Instinctively, Harry looked at Dumbledore, who smiled faintly, the firelight glancing off his half-moon spectacles.
\par \lquote What interests }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 me}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  most,\rquote  said Dumbledore gently, \lquote 
is how Lord Voldemort managed to enchant Ginny, when my sources tell me he is currently in hiding in the forests of Albania.\rquote 
\par Relief \endash  warm, sweeping, glorious relief \endash  swept over Harry.
\par \lquote W-what\rquote s that?\rquote  said Mr Weasley in a stunned voice. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote You Know Who?}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  En-enchant }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Ginny?}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  But Ginny
\rquote s not ... Ginny hasn\rquote t been ... has she?\rquote 
\par \lquote It was this diary,\rquote  said Harry quickly, picking it up and showing it to Dumbledore. \lquote Riddle wrote it when he was sixteen.\rquote 
\par Dumbledore took the diary from Harry and peered keenly down his long, crooked nose at its burnt and soggy pages.
\par \lquote Brilliant,\rquote  he said softly. \lquote Of course, he was probably the most brilliant student Hogwarts has ever seen.\rquote  He turned around to the Weasleys, who were looking utterly bewildered.
\par \lquote Very few people know that Lord Voldemort was once called Tom Riddle. I taught him myself, fifty years ago, at Hogw
arts. He disappeared after leaving the school ... travelled far and wide ... sank so deeply into the Dark Arts, consorted with the very worst of our kind, underwent so many dangerous, magical transfor\-
mations, that when he resurfaced as Lord Voldemort, he was barely recognisable. Hardly anyone connected Lord Voldemort with the clever, handsome boy who was once Head Boy here.\rquote 
\par \lquote But Ginny,\rquote  said Mrs Weasley, \lquote what\rquote s our Ginny got to do with \endash  with \endash  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 him?\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par \lquote His d-diary!\rquote  Ginny sobbed. \lquote I\rquote ve b-been writing in it, and he\rquote s been w-writing back all year \endash \rquote 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Ginny!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  said Mr Weasley flabbergasted. \lquote Haven\rquote 
t I taught you }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 anything?}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
 What have I always told you? Never trust anything that can think for itself }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 if you can\rquote t see where it keeps its brain.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Why didn\rquote t you show the diary to me, or your mother? A suspicious object like that, it was }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 clearly}{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  full of Dark Magic!\rquote 
\par \lquote I d-didn\rquote t know,\rquote  sobbed Ginny. \lquote I found it inside one of the books Mum got me. I th-thought someone had just left it in there and forgotten about it ...\rquote 
\par \lquote Miss Weasley should go up to the hospital wing straight away,\rquote  Dumbledore interrupted in a firm voice. \lquote This has been a terrible ordeal for her. There will be no punishment. Older and wiser wiz\-
ards than she have been hoodwinked by Lord Voldemort.\rquote  He strode over to the door and opened it. \lquote Bed rest and perhaps a large, steaming mug of hot chocolate. I always find that cheers me up,\rquote  he added, twinkling kindly down at her. 
\lquote You will find that Madam Pomfrey is still awake. She\rquote s just giving out Mandrake juice \endash  I dare say the Basilisk\rquote s victims will be waking up any moment.\rquote 
\par \lquote So Hermione\rquote s OK!\rquote  said Ron brightly.
\par \lquote There has been no lasting harm done,\rquote  said Dumbledore.
\par Mrs Weasley led Ginny out, and Mr Weasley followed, still looking deeply shaken.
\par \lquote You know, Minerva,\rquote  Professor Dumbledore said thoughtfully to Professor McGonagall, \lquote I think all this merits a good }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 feast.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 
\ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Might I ask you to go and alert the kitchens?\rquote 
\par \lquote Right,\rquote  said Professor McGonagall crisply, also moving to the door. \lquote I\rquote ll leave you to deal with Potter and Weasley, shall I?\rquote 
\par \lquote Certainly,\rquote  said Dumbledore.
\par She left, and Harry and Ron gazed uncertainly at Dumbledore. What exactly had Professor McGonagall meant, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 deal}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  with them? Surely \endash  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 surely}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  \endash  they weren\rquote t about to be punished?
\par \lquote I seem to remember telling you both that I would have to expel you if you broke any more school rules,\rquote  said Dumbledore.
\par Ron opened his mouth in horror.
\par \lquote Which goes to show that the best of us must sometimes eat our words,\rquote  Dumbledore went on, smiling. \lquote You will both receive Special Awards for Services to the School and \endash  let me see \endash 
 yes, I think two hundred points apiece for Gryffindor.\rquote 
\par Ron went as brightly pink as Lockhart\rquote s Valentine flowers and closed his mouth again.
\par \lquote But one of us seems to be keeping mightily quiet about his part in this dangerous adventure,\rquote  Dumbledore added. \lquote Why so modest, Gilderoy?\rquote 
\par Harry gave a start. He had completely forgotten about Lockhart. He turned and saw that Lockhart was standing in a cor\-ner of the room, still wearing his vague smile. W
hen Dumbledore addressed him, Lockhart looked over his shoulder to see who he was talking to.
\par \lquote Professor Dumbledore,\rquote  Ron said quickly, \lquote there was an accident down in the Chamber of Secrets. Professor Lockhart \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote Am I a Professor?\rquote  said Lockhart in mild surprise. \lquote Goodness. I expect I was hopeless, was I?\rquote 
\par \lquote He tried to do a Memory Charm and the wand backfired,\rquote  Ron explained quietly to Dumbledore.
\par \lquote Dear me,\rquote  said Dumbledore, shaking his head, his long silver moustache quivering. \lquote Impaled upon your own sword, Gilderoy!\rquote 
\par \lquote Sword?\rquote  said Lockhart dimly. \lquote Haven\rquote t got a sword. That boy has, though.\rquote  He pointed at Harry. \lquote He\rquote ll lend you one.\rquote 
\par \lquote Would you mind taking Professor Lockhart up to the hospital wing, too?\rquote  Dumbledore said to Ron. \lquote I\rquote d like a few more words with Harry ...\rquote 
\par Lockhart ambled out. Ron cast a curious look back at Dumbledore and Harry as he closed the door.
\par Dumbledore crossed to one of the chairs by the fire.
\par \lquote Sit down, Harry,\rquote  he said, and Harry sat, feeling unaccountably nervous.
\par \lquote First of all, Harry, I want to thank you,\rquote  said Dumbledore, eyes twinkling again. \lquote You must have shown me real loyalty down in the Chamber. Nothing but that could have called Fawkes to you.\rquote 
\par He stroked the phoenix, which had fluttered down onto his knee. Harry grinned awkwardly as Dumbledore watched him.
\par \lquote And so you met Tom Riddle,\rquote  said Dumbledore thoughtfully. \lquote I imagine he was }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 most}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  interested in you ...\rquote 
\par Suddenly, something that was nagging at Harry came tumbling out of his mouth.
\par \lquote Professor Dumbledore ... Riddle said I\rquote m like him. Strange like\-nesses, he said ...\rquote 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Did}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  he, now?\rquote 
 said Dumbledore, looking thoughtfully under his thick silver eyebrows at Harry. And what do you think, Harry?\rquote 
\par \lquote I don\rquote t think I\rquote m like him!\rquote  said Harry, more loudly than he\rquote d intended. \lquote I mean, I\rquote m \endash  I\rquote m in }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
Gryffindor,}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  I\rquote m ...\rquote 
\par But he fell silent, a lurking doubt resurfacing in his mind.
\par \lquote Professor,\rquote  he started again after a moment, \lquote the Sorting Hat told me I\rquote d \endash  I\rquote d have done well in Slytherin. Everyone thought I was Slytherin\rquote s heir for a while ... because I can speak Parseltongue ...
\rquote 
\par \lquote You can speak Parseltongue, Harry,\rquote  said Dumbledore calmly, \lquote because Lord Voldemort \endash  who is the last remaining descendant of Salazar Slytherin \endash  can speak Parseltongue. Unless I\rquote m much m
istaken, he transferred some of his own powers to you the night he gave you that scar. Not something he intended to do, I\rquote m sure ...\rquote 
\par \lquote Voldemort put a bit of himself in }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 me?\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  Harry said, thunder-struck.

\par \lquote It certainly seems so.\rquote 
\par \lquote So I }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 should}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  be in Slytherin,\rquote 
 Harry said, looking desperately into Dumbledore\rquote s face. \lquote The Sorting Hat could see Slytherin\rquote s power in me, and it \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote Put you in Gryffindor,\rquote  said Dumbledore calmly. \lquote Listen to me, Harry. You happen to have many qualities Salazar Slytherin prized in his
 hand-picked students. His own very rare gift, Parseltongue ... resourcefulness ... determination ... a certain disregard for rules,\rquote  he added, his moustache quivering again. \lquote 
Yet the Sorting Hat placed you in Gryffindor. You know why that was. Think.\rquote 
\par \lquote It only put me in Gryffindor,\rquote  said Harry in a defeated voice, \lquote because I asked not to go in Slytherin ...\rquote 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Exactly,\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  said Dumbledore, beaming once more. \lquote 
Which makes you very }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 different}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
 from Tom Riddle. It is our choices, Harry, that show what we truly are, far more than our abilities.\rquote  Harry sat motionless in his chair, stunned. \lquote If you want proof, Harry, that you belong in Gryffindor, I suggest you look more closely at }
{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 this.\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par Dumbledore reached across to Professor McGonagall\rquote s desk, picked up the blood-stained silver sword and handed it to Harry. Dully, Harry turned it over, the rubies blazing in the firelight. And then he saw the name engraved just below the hilt.

\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Godric Gryffindor.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par \lquote Only a true Gryffindor could have pulled that out of the Hat, Harry,\rquote  said Dumbledore simply.
\par For a minute, neither of them spoke. Then Dumbledore pulled open one of the drawers in Professor McGonagall\rquote s desk, and took out a quill and a bottle of ink.
\par \lquote What you need, Harry, is some food and sleep. I suggest you go down to the feast, while I write to Azkaban \endash  we need our game\-keeper back. And I must draft an advertisement for the }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Daily}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Prophet,}{\rtlch\fcs1 
\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  too,\rquote  he added thoughtfully. \lquote We\rquote ll be needing a new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher. Dear me, we do seem to run through them, don\rquote t we?\rquote 

\par Harry got up and crossed to the door. He had just reached for the handle, however, when the door burst open so violently that it bounced back off the wall.
\par Lucius Malfoy stood there, fury in his face. And cowering under his arm, heavily wrapped in bandages, was }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Dobby.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par \lquote Good evening, Lucius,\rquote  said Dumbledore pleasantly.
\par Mr Malfoy almost knocked Harry over as he swept into the room. Dobby went scurrying in after him, crouching at the hem of his cloak, a look of abject terror on his face.
\par \lquote So!\rquote  said Lucius Malfoy, his cold eyes fixed on Dumbledore. \lquote You\rquote ve come back. The governors suspended you, but you still saw fit to return to Hogwarts.\rquote 
\par \lquote Well, you see, Lucius,\rquote  said Dumbledore, smiling serenely, \lquote the other eleven governors contacted me today. It was something like being caught in a hailstorm of owls, to tell the truth. They\rquote d heard that Arthur Weasley\rquote 
s daughter had been killed and wanted me back here at once. They seemed to think I was the best man for the job after all. Very strange tales they told me, too. Several of them seemed to think that you had threatened to curse their fami\-lies if they didn
\rquote t agree to suspend me in the first place.\rquote 
\par Mr Malfoy went even paler than usual, but his eyes were still slits of fury.
\par \lquote So \endash  have you stopped the attacks yet?\rquote  he sneered. \lquote Have you caught the culprit?\rquote 
\par \lquote We have,\rquote  said Dumbledore, with a smile.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Well?\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  said Mr Malfoy sharply. \lquote Who is it?\rquote 
\par \lquote The same person as last time, Lucius,\rquote  said Dumbledore. \lquote But this time, Lord Voldemort was acting through somebody else. By means of this diary.\rquote 
\par He held up the small black book with the large hole through the centre, watching Mr Malfoy closely. Harry, however, was watching Dobby.
\par The elf was doing something very odd. His great eyes fixed meaningfully on Harry, he kept pointing at the diary, then at Mr Malfoy, and then hitting himself hard on the head with his fist.
\par \lquote I see ...\rquote  said Mr Malfoy slowly to Dumbledore.
\par \lquote A clever plan,\rquote  said Dumbledore in a level voice, still staring Mr Malfoy straight in the eye. \lquote Because if Harry here \endash \rquote  Mr Malfoy shot Harry a swift, sharp look, \lquote and his friend Ron hadn\rquote t discov\-
ered this book, why \endash  Ginny Weasley might have taken all the blame. No one would ever have been able to prove she hadn\rquote t acted of her own free will ...\rquote 
\par Mr Malfoy said nothing. His face was suddenly mask-like.
\par \lquote And imagine,\rquote  Dumbledore went on, \lquote what might have hap\-pened then ... The Weasleys are one of our most prominent pure-blood families. Imagine the effect on Arthur Weasley and his Muggle Protection Act, i
f his own daughter was discovered attack\-ing and killing Muggle-borns. Very fortunate the diary was discovered, and Riddle\rquote s memories wiped from it. Who knows what the consequences might have been otherwise ...\rquote 
\par Mr Malfoy forced himself to speak.
\par \lquote Very fortunate,\rquote  he said stiffly.
\par And still, behind his back, Dobby was pointing, first to the diary, then to Lucius Malfoy, then punching himself in the head.
\par And Harry suddenly understood. He nodded at Dobby, and Dobby backed into a corner, now twisting his ears in punishment.
\par \lquote Don\rquote t you want to know how Ginny got hold of that diary, Mr Malfoy?\rquote  said Harry.
\par Lucius Malfoy rounded on him.
\par \lquote How should I know how the stupid little girl got hold of it?\rquote  he said.
\par \lquote Because you gave it to her,\rquote  said Harry. \lquote In Flourish and Blotts. You picked up her old Transfiguration book, and slipped the diary inside it, didn\rquote t you?\rquote 
\par He saw Mr Malfoy\rquote s white hands clench and unclench.
\par \lquote Prove it,\rquote  he hissed.
\par \lquote Oh, no one will be able to do that,\rquote  said Dumbledore, smiling at Harry. \lquote Not now Riddle has vanished from the book. On the other hand, I would advise you, Lucius, not to go giving out any more of Lord Voldemort\rquote 
s old school things. If any more of them find their way into innocent hands, I think Arthur Weasley, for one, will make sure they are traced back to you ...\rquote 
\par Lucius Malfoy stood for a moment, and Harry distinctly saw his right hand twitch as though he was longing to reach for his wand. Instead, he turned to his house-elf.
\par \lquote We\rquote re going, Dobby!\rquote 
\par He wrenched open the door, and as the elf came hurrying up to him, he kicked him right through it. They could hear Dobby squealing with pain all the way along the corridor. Harry stood for a moment, thinking hard. Then it came to him.
\par \lquote Professor Dumbledore,\rquote  he said hurriedly, \lquote can I give that diary }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 back}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271  to Mr Malfoy, please?\rquote 
\par \lquote Certainly, Harry,\rquote  said Dumbledore calmly. \lquote But hurry. The feast, remember.\rquote 
\par Harry grabbed the diary and dashed out of the office. He could hear Dobby\rquote s squeals of pain receding around the corner. Quickly,
 wondering if this plan could possibly work, Harry took off one of his shoes, pulled off his slimy, filthy sock, and stuffed the diary into it. Then he ran down the dark corridor.
\par He caught up with them at the top of the stairs.
\par \lquote Mr Malfoy,\rquote  he gasped, skidding to a halt, \lquote I\rquote ve got something for you.\rquote 
\par And he forced the smelly sock into Lucius Malfoy\rquote s hand.
\par \lquote What the \endash ?\rquote 
\par Mr Malfoy ripped the sock off the diary, threw it aside, then looked furiously from the ruined book to Harry.
\par \lquote You\rquote ll meet the same sticky end as your parents one of these days, Harry Potter,\rquote  he said softly. \lquote They were meddlesome fools, too.\rquote 
\par He turned to go.
\par \lquote Come, Dobby. I said, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Come!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par But Dobby didn\rquote t move. He was holding up Harry\rquote s disgusting, slimy sock, and looking at it as though it were a priceless treasure.
\par \lquote Master has given Dobby a sock,\rquote  said the elf in wonderment. \lquote Master gave it to Dobby.\rquote 
\par \lquote What\rquote s that?\rquote  spat Mr Malfoy. \lquote What did you say?\rquote 
\par \lquote Dobby has got a sock,\rquote  said Dobby in disbelief. \lquote Master threw it, and Dobby caught it, and Dobby \endash  Dobby is }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 free.\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 
\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par Lucius Malfoy stood frozen, staring at the elf. Then he lunged at Harry.
\par \lquote You\rquote ve lost me my servant, boy!\rquote 
\par But Dobby shouted, \lquote You shall not harm Harry Potter!\rquote 
\par There was a loud bang, and Mr Malfoy was thrown backwards. He crashed down the stairs, three at a time, landing in a crumpled heap on the landing below. He got up, his face livid, and pulled out his wand, but Dobby raised a long threatening finger.
\par \lquote You shall go now,\rquote  he said fiercely, pointing down at Mr Malfoy.
\par \lquote You shall not touch Harry Potter. You shall go now.\rquote 
\par Lucius Malfoy had no choice. With a last, incensed stare at the pair of them, he swung his cloak around him and hurried out of sight.
\par \lquote Harry Potter freed Dobby!\rquote  said the elf shrilly, gazing up at Harry, moonlight from the nearest window reflected in his orb-like eyes. \lquote Harry Potter set Dobby free!\rquote 
\par \lquote Least I could do, Dobby,\rquote  said Harry, grinning. \lquote Just promise never to try and save my life again.\rquote 
\par The elf\rquote s ugly brown face split suddenly into a wide, toothy smile.
\par \lquote I\rquote ve just got one question, Dobby,\rquote  said Harry, as Dobby pulled on Harry\rquote s sock with shaking hands. \lquote You told me all this had nothing to do with He Who Must Not Be Named, remember? Well \endash \rquote 
\par \lquote It was a clue, sir,\rquote  said Dobby, his eyes widening, as though this was obvious. \lquote Dobby was giving you a clue. The Dark Lord, before he changed his name, could be freely named, you see?\rquote 
\par \lquote Right,\rquote  said Harry weakly. \lquote Well, I\rquote d better go. There\rquote s a feast, and my friend Hermione should be awake by now ...\rquote 
\par Dobby threw his arms around Harry\rquote s middle and hugged him.
\par \lquote Harry Potter is greater by far than Dobby knew!\rquote  he sobbed. \lquote Farewell, Harry Potter!\rquote 
\par And with a final loud crack, Dobby disappeared.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 *
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 Harry had been to several Hogwarts feasts, but never one qui
te like this. Everybody was in their pyjamas, and the celebrations lasted all night. Harry didn\rquote t know whether the best bit was Hermione running towards him, screaming, \lquote You solved it! You solved it!\rquote 
 or Justin hurrying over from the Hufflepuff table to wr
ing his hand and apologise endlessly for suspecting him, or Hagrid turning up at half past three, cuffing Harry and Ron so hard on the shoulders that they were knocked into their plates of trifle, or his and Ron\rquote 
s four hundred points securing Gryffindor the House Cup for the second year running, or Professor McGonagall standing up to tell them all that the exams had been cancelled as a school treat (\lquote Oh, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 no!\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
 said Hermione), or Dumbledore announcing that, unfortunately, Professor Lockhart would be unable to return next year, owing to the fact that he needed to go away and get his memory back. Quite a few of the teachers joined in the cheering that greeted thi
s news.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 \lquote Shame,\rquote  said Ron, helping himself to a jam doughnut. \lquote 
He was starting to grow on me.\rquote 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 *
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
The rest of the summer term passed in a haze of blazing sunshine. Hogwarts was back to normal, with only a few, small differences: Defence Against the Dark Arts classes were cancelled (\lquote but we\rquote ve had plenty of practice at that anyway,
\rquote  Ron told a disgruntled Hermione) and Lucius Malfoy had been sacked as a school gover\-nor. Draco was no longer strutting around the school as though he owned the place. On the contr
ary, he looked resentful and sulky. On the other hand, Ginny Weasley was perfectly happy again.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
Too soon, it was time for the journey home on the Hogwarts Express. Harry, Ron, Hermione, Fred, George and Ginny got a compartment to themselves. They made the 
most of the last few hours in which they were allowed to do magic before the holidays. They played Exploding Snap, set off the very last of Fred and George\rquote 
s Filibuster Fireworks, and practised disarming each other by magic. Harry was getting very good at it.
\par They were almost at King\rquote s Cross when Harry remembered something.
\par \lquote Ginny \endash  what did you see Percy doing, that he didn\rquote t want you to tell anyone?\rquote 
\par \lquote Oh, that,\rquote  said Ginny, giggling. \lquote Well \endash  Percy\rquote s got a }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 girlfriend.\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang2057\langfe3081\langnp2057\insrsid11695271 
\par Fred dropped a stack of books on George\rquote s head.
\par \lquote What?\rquote 
\par \lquote It\rquote s that Ravenclaw Prefect, Penelope Clearwater,\rquote  said Ginny. \lquote That\rquote s who he was writing to all last summer. He\rquote 
s been meeting her all over the school in secret. I walked in on them kissing in an empty classroom one day. He was so upset when she was \endash  you know \endash  attacked. You won\rquote t tease him, will you?\rquote  she added anxiously.
\par \lquote Wouldn\rquote t dream of it,\rquote  said Fred, who was looking as if his birthday had come early.
\par \lquote Definitely not,\rquote  said George, sniggering.
\par The Hogwarts Express slowed and finally stopped.
\par Harry pulled out his quill and a bit of parchment and turned to Ron and Hermione.
\par \lquote This is called a telephone number,\rquote  he told Ron, scribbling it twice, tearing the parchment in two and handing it to them. \lquote I told your dad how to use a telephone last summer, he\rquote ll know. Call me at the Dursleys, OK? I can
\rquote t stand another two months with only Dudley to talk to ...\rquote 
\par \lquote Your aunt and uncle will be proud, though, won\rquote t they?\rquote  said Hermione, as they got off the train and joined the crowd throng\-ing towards the enchanted barrier. \lquote When they hear what you did this year?\rquote 
\par \lquote Proud?\rquote  said Harry. \lquote Are you mad? All those times I could\rquote ve died, and I didn\rquote t manage it? They\rquote ll be furious ...\rquote 
\par And together they walked back through the gateway to the Muggle world.
\par }}