{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f304\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f305\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f307\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f308\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f309\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f310\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f311\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f312\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}
{\f313\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f315\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f316\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f317\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}{\f318\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}
{\f319\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;
\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs32\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning32\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\title Hostess}{\author SeaGull}{\operator SeaGull}{\creatim\yr2000\mo9\dy14\hr22\min30}{\revtim\yr2000\mo9\dy14\hr22\min31}{\version3}{\edmins0}{\nofpages22}{\nofwords12220}
{\nofchars69656}{\*\company Chaos Inc}{\nofcharsws85542}{\vern8247}}\paperw11916\paperh16800\margl720\margr720\margt3125\margb1354 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin
\dghspace120\dgvspace163\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow2\jexpand\viewkind4\viewscale137\viewzk2\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd 
\psz9\linex0\headery3125\sectlinegrid326\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \fi288\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \cbpat8 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs32 Hostess
\par }\pard \ql \fi288\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \cbpat8 {
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 Rose Smollett was happy about it; almost triumphant. She peeled off her }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 gloves, put her hat away, and turned her brightening eyes upon her husband.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 She said, "Drake, we're going to have him here."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Drake looked at her with annoyance. "You've missed supper. 1 thought }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 you were going to be back by seven."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "Oh, that doesn't matter. I ate something on the way home. But, Drake, we're going to have him here!"}{
\par }{\i\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "Who }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 here? What are you talking about?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 "The doctor from Hawkin's Planet! Didn't you realize that was what }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 today's conference was about? We spent all day talking about it. It's the }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 
most exciting thing that could possibly have happened!"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 Drake Smollett removed the pipe from the vicinity of his face. He stared }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 first at it and then at his wife. "Let me get this straight. When you say the }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 
doctor from Hawkin's Planet, do you mean the Hawkinsite you've got at the }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 Institute?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "Well, of course. Who else could I possibly mean?"}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 "And may I ask what the devil you mean by saying we'll have him here?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "Drake, don't you understand?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 "What is there to understand? Your Institute may be interested in the }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 thing, but I'm not. What have we to do with it personally? It's Institute }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 business, isn't it?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "But, darling," Rose said, patiently, "the Hawkinsite would like to stay at a private house somewhere, where he won't be bothered with official cere-}{\cf1\charscalex69 Copyright \'a9 1951 by World Editions, Inc.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 mony, and where he'll be able to proceed more according to his own likes and dislikes. I find it quite understandable."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "Why at }{\i\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 our }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 house?"}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 "Because our place is convenient for the purpose, I suppose. They asked if I would allow it, and frankly," she added with some stiffness, "I consider it a }{\expnd-2\expndtw-13\cf1 privilege."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "Look!" Drake put his fingers through his brown hair and succeeded in }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 rumpling it. "We've got a convenient little place here\emdash 
granted! It's not the most elegant place in the world, but it does well enough for us. However, I }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 don't see where we've got room for extraterrestrial visitors."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Rose began to look worried. She removed her glasses and put them away }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 in their case. "He can stay in the spare room. He'll take care of it himself. }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 
I've spoken to him and he's very pleasant. Honestly, all we have to do is }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 show a certain amount of adaptability."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Drake said, "Sure, just a little adaptability! The Hawkinsites breathe cya\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 nide. We'll just adapt ourselves to that, I suppose!"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "He carries cyanide in a little cylinder. You won't even notice it."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 "And what else about them that I won't notice?"}{
\par }{\i\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 "Nothing }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 else. They're perfectly harmless. Goodness, they're even vege\-tarians."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "And what does that mean? Do we feed him a bale of hay for dinner?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 Rose's lower lip trembled. "Drake, you're being deliberately hateful. }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 There are many vegetarians on Earth; they don't eat hay."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 "And what about us? Do we eat meat ourselves or will that make us look }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 like cannibals to him? I won't live on salads to suit him; I warn you."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 "You're being quite ridiculous."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Rose felt helpless. She had married late in life, comparatively. Her
 career had been chosen; she herself had seemed well settled in it. She was a fellow in biology at the Jenkins Institute for the Natural Sciences, with over twenty }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
publications to her credit. In a word, the line was hewed, the path cleared; }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 she had been set for a career and spinsterhood. And now, at thirty-five, she }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
was still a little amazed to find herself a bride of less than a year.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Occasionally, it embarrassed her, too, since she sometimes found that she }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 had not the slightest idea of how to handle her husband. What }{\i\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 did }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 one do }{
\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 when the man of the family became mulish? That was not included in any }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 of her courses. As a woman of independent mind and career, she couldn't }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 bring herself to cajolery.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 So she looked at him steadily and said simply, "It means very much to }{\expnd-3\expndtw-15\cf1 me."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 "Why?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "Because, Drake, if he stays here for any length of time, I can study him }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 really closely. Very little work has been done on the biology and psychology }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 
of the individual Hawkinsite or of any of the extraterrestrial intelligences}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 We have some of their sociology and history, of course, but that's all. Surely, }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 you must see the opportunity. He stays here; we watch him, speak to him, }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 observe his habits
\emdash "}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "Not interested."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 "Oh, Drake, I don't understand you."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "You're going to say }{\expnd0\expndtw2\cf1 I'm}{\cf1  }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 not usually like this, I suppose."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "Well, you're not."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 Drake was silent for a while. He seemed withdrawn and his high cheek\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 bones and large chin were twisted and frozen into a brooding position.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 He said finally, }{\i\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "Look, }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 I've heard a bit about the Hawkinsites in the way }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 of my own business. You say there have been investigations of their sociol\-}{
\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 ogy, but not of their biology. Sure. It's because the Hawkinsites don't like to be studied as specimens any more than we would. I've spoken to men who }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 
were in charge of security groups watching various Hawkinsite missions on }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Earth. The missions stay in the rooms assigned to them and don't leave for }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 
anything but the most important official business. They have nothing to do }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 with Earthmen. It's quite obvious that they are as revolted by us as I person\-ally am by them.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1 "In fact, I just don't understand why this Hawkinsite at the Institute }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 should be any different. It seems to me to be against all the rules to have him come here by himself, anyway\emdash 
and to have him want to stay in an }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 Earthman's home just puts the maraschino cherry on top."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Rose said, wearily, "This is different. I'm surprised you can't understand it, Drake. He's a doctor. He's coming here in the way of medical research, }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 
and I'll grant you that he probably doesn't enjoy staying with human beings }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 and will find us perfectly horrible. But he must stay just the same! Do you }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 
suppose human doctors enjoy going into the tropics, or that they are particu\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 larly fond of letting themselves be bitten by infected mosquitoes?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 Drake said sharply, "What's this about mosquitoes? What have they to }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 do with it?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 "Why, nothing," Rose answered, surprised. "It just came to my mind, }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 that's all. I was thinking of Reed and his yellow-fever experiments."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 Drake shrugged. "Well, have it your own way."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 For a moment, Rose hesitated. "You're not angry about this, are you?" To her own ears she sounded unpleasantly girlish.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 "No."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 And that, Rose knew, meant that he was.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 Rose surveyed herself doubtfully in the full-length mirror. She had never }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 been beautiful and was quite reconciled to the fact; so much so that it no }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 
longer mattered. Certainly, it would not matter to a being from Hawkin's }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 Planet. What }{\i\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 did }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 bother her was this matter of being a hostess under the }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 
very queer circumstances of having to be tactful to an extraterrestrial crea-}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 ture and, at the same time, to her husband as well. She wondered which }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 would prove the more difficult.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 Drake was coming home late that day; he was not due for half an hour. }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex90 Rose found herself inclined to believe that he had arranged that purposely in }{\cf1\charscalex90 
a sullen desire to leave her alone with her problem. She found herself in a state of mild resentment.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 He had called her just before noon at the Institute and had asked abruptly, "When are you taking him home?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 She answered, curtly, "In about three hours."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 "All right. What's his name? His Hawkinsite name?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 "Why do you want to know?" She could not keep the chill from her }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1\charscalex90 words.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 "Let's call it a small investigation of my own. After all, the thing will be in my house."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 "Oh, for heaven's sake, Drake, don't bring your job home with you!"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 Drake's voice sounded tinny and nasty in her ears. "Why not, Rose? Isn't }{\cf1\charscalex90 that exactly what you're doing?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 It was, of course, so she gave him the information he wanted.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 This was the first time in their married life that they had had even the semblance of a quarrel, and, as she sat there before the full-length mirror, she began to wonder if perhaps she ought not make an attempt to see his side 
of it. In essence, she had married a policeman. Of course he was more than simply a policeman; he was a member of the World Security Board.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 It had been a surprise to her friends. The fact of the marriage itself had been the biggest surprise, but if she had
 decided on marriage, the attitude was, why not with another biologist? Or, if she had wanted to go afield, an anthropologist, perhaps; even a chemist; but why, of all people, a police\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex90 
man? Nobody had exactly said those things, naturally, but it had been in the }{\cf1\charscalex90 very atmosphere at the time of her marriage.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 She had resented it then, and ever since. A man could marry whom he chose, but if a doctor of philosophy, female variety, chose to mar
ry a man who never went past the bachelor's degree, there was shock. Why should there be? What business was it of theirs? He was handsome, in a way, }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 
intelligent, in another way, and she was perfectly satisfied with her choice.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 Yet how much of this same snobbishness did she bring home with her? }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex90 Didn't she always have the attitude that her own work, her biological inves\-}{\cf1\charscalex90 
tigations, were important, while his job was merely something to be kept }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex90 within the four walls of his little office in the old U.N. buildings on the East }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1\charscalex90 River?}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 She jumped up from her seat in agitation and, with a deep breath, de\-
cided to leave such thoughts behind her. She desperately did not want to quarrel with him. And she just wasn't going to interfere with him. She was committed to accepting the Hawkinsite as guest, but otherwise she would}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 let Drake have his own way. He was making enough of a concession as it}{
\par }{\expnd-3\expndtw-17\cf1\charscalex90 was.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 Harg Tholan was standing quietly in the middle of the living room when she came down the stairs. He was not sitting, since he was not anatomically }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex90 
constructed to sit. He stood on two sets of limbs placed close together, while }{\cf1\charscalex90 
a third pair entirely different in construction were suspended from a region that would have been the upper chest in a human being. The skin of his body was hard, glistening and ridged, while his face bore a distant resem\-}{
\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex90 blance to something alienly bovine. Yet he was not completely repulsive, and }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex90 he wore clothes of a sort over the lower portion of his body in order to avoid }{
\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 offending the sensibilities of his human hosts.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 He said, "Mrs. Smollett, I appreciate your hospitality beyond my ability }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex90 to express it in your language," and he drooped so that his forelimbs touched }{\cf1\charscalex90 the ground for a moment.}{

\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 Rose knew this to be a gesture signifying gratitude among the beings of Hawkin's Planet. She was grateful that he spoke English as well as he did. The construction of his mouth, combined with an absence of incisors, gave }{
\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 a whistling sound to the sibilants. Aside from that, he might have been born }{\cf1\charscalex90 on Earth for all the accent his speech showed.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 She said, "My husband will be home soon, and then we will eat."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 "Your husband?" For a moment, he said nothing more, and then added, }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex90 "Yes, of course."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 She let it go. If there was one source of infinite confusion among the five }{\cf1\charscalex90 intellig
ent races of the known Galaxy, it lay in the differences among them with regard to their sex life and the social institutions that grew around it. The concept of husband and wife, for instance, existed only on Earth. The other races could achieve a sort o
f intellectual understanding of what it meant, but never an emotional one.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 She said, "I have consulted the Institute in preparing your menu. I trust you will find nothing in it that will upset you."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex90 The Hawkinsite blinked its eyes rapidly. Rose recalled this to be a gesture of amusement.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 He said, "Proteins are proteins, my dear Mrs. Smollett. For those trace factors which I need but are not supplied in your food, I have brought concentrates that will be most adequate."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 And proteins }{\i\cf1\charscalex90 were }{\cf1\charscalex90 proteins. Rose knew this to be true. Her concern for }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 the creature's diet had been largely one of formal politeness. In the discov\-}{
\cf1\charscalex90 ery of life on the planets of the outer stars, one of the most interesting generalizations that had developed was the fact that, although life could be formed on the basis of substances other than proteins\emdash 
even on elements other than carbon\emdash it remained true that the only known intelligences were proteinaceous in nature. This meant that each of the five forms of intelli-}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 gent life could maintain themselves over prolonged periods on the food of }{\cf1\charscalex92 any of the other four.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 She heard Drake's key in the door and went stiff with apprehension.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex92 She had to admit he did well. He strode in, and, without hesitation, thrust his hand out at the Hawkinsite, saying firmly, "Good evening, Dr. }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 Tholan."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex92 The Hawkinsite put out his large and rather clumsy forelimb and the two, }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex92 so to speak, shook hands. Rose had already gone through that procedure and }{
\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 knew the queer feeling of a Hawkinsite hand in her own. It had felt rough }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex92 and hot and dry. She imagined that, to the Hawkinsite, her own and Drake's felt cold and slimy.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex92 At the time of the formal greeting, she had taken the opportunity to }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex92 observe the alien hand. It was an excellent case of converging evolution. Its }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 morphological
 development was entirely different from that of the human }{\cf1\charscalex92 hand, yet it had brought itself into a fairly approximate similarity. There }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex92 
were four fingers but no thumb. Each finger had five independent ball-and-}{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 socket joints. In this way, the flexibility lost with the absence of the thumb }{\cf1\charscalex92 
was made up for by the almost tentacular properties of the fingers. What was even more interesting to her biologist's eyes was the fact that each }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 
Hawkinsite finger ended in a vestigial hoof, very small and, to the layman, }{\cf1\charscalex92 unidentifiable as such, but clearly adapted at one time to running, just as }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 man's had been to climbing.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex92 Drake said, in friendly enough fashion, "Are you quite comfortable, sir?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex92 The Hawkinsite answered, "Quite. Your wife has been most thoughtful in }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 all her arrangements."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 "Would you care for a drink?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex92 The Hawkinsite did not answer but looked at Rose with a slight facial contortion that indicated some emotion which, unfortunately, Rose could }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 
not interpret. She said, nervously, "On Earth there is the custom of drink\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex92 ing liquids which have been fortified with ethyl alcohol. We find it stimulat\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1\charscalex92 ing."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex92 "Oh, yes. I am afraid, then, that I must decline. Ethyl alcohol would }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 interfere most unpleasantly with my metabolism."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex92 "Why, so it does to Earthmen, too, but I understand, Dr. Tholan," }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 Drake replied. "Would you object to }{\i\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 my }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 drinking?"}{

\par }{\cf1\charscalex92 "Of course not."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 Drake passed close to Rose on his way to the sideboard and she caught }{\cf1\charscalex92 only one word. He said, "God!" in a tightly controlled whisper, yet he }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 
managed to put seventeen exclamation points after it.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex92 The Hawkinsite }{\i\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex92 stood }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex92 at the table. His fingers were models of dexterity as }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 
they wove their way around the cutlery. Rose tried not to look at him as he }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex92 ate. His wide lipless mouth split his face alarmingly as he ingested food, and}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 in chewing, his large jaws moved disconcertingly from side to side. It was }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 another evidence of his ungulate ancestry. Rose found herself wondering if, }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 
in the quiet of his own room, he would later chew his cud, and was then }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 panic-stricken lest Drake get the same idea and leave the table in disgust. }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 But Drake was taking everything quite calmly.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1 He said, "I imagine, Dr. Tholan, that the cylinder at your side holds }{\expnd-3\expndtw-16\cf1 cyanide?"}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Rose started. She had actually not noticed it. It was a curved metal object, }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
something like a water canteen, that fitted flatly against the creature's skin, half-hidden behind its clothing. But, then, Drake had a policeman's eyes.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 The Hawkinsite was not in the least disconcerted. "Quite so," he said, }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 and his hoofed fingers held out a thin, flexible hose that ran up his body, its }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 
tint blending into that of his yellowish skin, and entered the corner of his }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 wide mouth. Rose felt slightly embarrassed, as though at the display of }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 intimate articles of clothing.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Drake said, "And does it contain pure cyanide?"}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 The Hawkinsite humorously blinked his eyes. "I hope you are not consid\-}{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 ering possible danger to Earthites. I know the gas is highly poisonous to you }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 and I do 
not need a great deal. The gas contained in the cylinder is five per }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 cent hydrogen cyanide, the remainder oxygen. None of it emerges except }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 
when I actually suck at the tube, and that need not be done frequently."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "I see. And you really must have the gas to live?"}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 Rose was slightly appalled. One simply did not ask such questions without }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 careful preparation. It was impossible to foresee where the sensitive points }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 
of an alien psychology might be. And Drake }{\i\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 must }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 be doing this deliberately, since he could not help realizing that he could get answers to such questions }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 
as easily from herself. Or was it that he preferred not to ask her?}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 The Hawkinsite remained apparently unperturbed. "Are you not a biolo\-gist, Mr. Smollett?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 "No, Dr. Tholan."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "But you are in close association with Mrs. }{\i\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Dr. }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Smollett."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Drake smile a bit. "Yes, I am married to a Mrs. doctor, but just the same I }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 am not a biologist; merely a minor government official. My wife's friends," }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
he added, "call me a policeman."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 Rose bit the inside of her cheek. In this case it was the Hawkinsite who }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 had impinged upon the sensitive point of an alien psychology. On Hawkin's }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 
Planet, there was a tight caste system and intercaste associations were lim\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 ited. But Drake wouldn't realize that.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 The Hawkinsite turned to her. "May I have your permission, Mrs. Smol\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 lett, to explain a little of our biochemistry to your husband? It will be dull }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
for you, since I am sure you must understand it quite well already."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 She said, "By all means do, Dr. Tholan."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 He said, "You see, Mr. Smollett, the respiratory system in your body and}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex89 in the bodies of all air-breathing creatures on Earth is controlled by certain metal-containing enzymes, I am taught. The metal is usually iron, though sometimes it is copper. In either case, small traces of cyanide would com\-
bine with these metals and immobilize the respiratory system of the terres\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex89 trial living cell. They would be prevented from using oxygen and killed in a }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex89 few minutes.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex89 "The life on my own planet is not quite so constituted. The key respira\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex89 tory compounds contain neither iron nor copper; no metal at all, in fact. It is }{\cf1\charscalex89 
for this reason that my blood is colorless. Our compounds contain certain organic groupings which are essential to life, and these groupings can only be maintained intact in the presence of a small concentration of cyanide. }{
\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex89 Undoubtedly, this type of protein has developed through millions of years of }{\cf1\charscalex89 evolution on a world which has a few tenths of a per cent of hydrogen }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex89 
cyanide occurring naturally in the atmosphere. Its presence is maintained by }{\cf1\charscalex89 a biological cycle. Various of our native micro-organisms liberate the free }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex89 gas."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex89 "You make it extremely clear, Dr. Tholan, and very interesting," Drake said. "What happens if you don't breathe it? Do you just go, like that?" He }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex89 snapped his fingers.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex89 "Not quite. It isn't equivalent to the presence of cyanide for you. In my case, the absence of cyanide would be equivalent to slow strangulation. It }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex89 
happens sometimes, in ill-ventilated rooms on my world, that the cyanide is }{\cf1\charscalex89 gradually consumed and falls below the minimum necessary concentration. The results are very painful and difficult to treat."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex89 Rose had to give Drake credit; he really sounded interested. And the alien, thank heaven, did not mind the catechism.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex89 The rest of the dinner passed without incident. It was almost pleasant.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex89 Throughout the evening, Drake remained that way; interested. Even more than that\emdash absorbed. He drowned her out, and she was glad of it. }{\i\cf1\charscalex89 He }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex89 
was the one who was really colorful and it was only her job, her specialized }{\cf1\charscalex89 training, that stole the color from him. She looked at him gloomily and }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 thought, }{\i\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 Why did he many me?}{

\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Drake sat, one leg crossed over the other, hands clasped and tapping his chin gently, watching the Hawkinsite intently. The Hawkinsite faced him, }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 standing in his quadruped fashion.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 Drake said, "I find it difficult to keep thinking of you as a doctor."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 The Hawkinsite laughingly blinked his eyes. "I understand what you }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 mean," he said. "I find it difficult to think of you as a policeman. On my }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 
world, policemen are very specialized and distinctive people."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 "Are they?" said Drake, somewhat drily, and then changed the subject. "I }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 gather that you are not here on a pleasure trip."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 "No, I am here very much on business. I intend to study this queer plane* }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 you call Earth, as it has never been studied before by any of my people.'}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "Queer?" asked Drake. "In what way?"}{
\par }{\cf1 The Hawkinsite looked at Rose. "Does he know of the Inhibition }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 Death?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 Rose felt embarrassed. "His work is important," she said. "I am afraid }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 that my husband has little time to listen to the details of my work." She }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
knew that this was not really adequate and she felt herself to be the recipi\-ent, yet again, of one of the Hawkinsite's unreadable emotions.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 The extraterrestrial creature turned back to Drake. "It is always amazing }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 to me to find how little you Earthmen understand your own unusual charac\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 
teristics. Look, there are five intelligent races in the Galaxy. These have all }{\expnd-2\expndtw-12\cf1 developed independently, yet have managed to converge in remarkable fash\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 ion. It is as though, in the long run, 
intelligence requires a certain physical }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 makeup to flourish. I leave that question for philosophers. But I need not belabor the point, since it must be a familiar one to you.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "Now when the differences among the intelligences are closely investi\-}{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 gated, it is found over and over again that it is you Earthmen, more than any }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 
of the others, who are unique. For instance, it is only on Earth that life }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 depends upon metal enzymes for respiration. Your people are the only ones }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 which find hydrogen cyanide p
oisonous. Yours is the only form of intelligent life which is carnivorous. Yours is the only form of life which has not devel\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 oped from a grazing animal. And, most interesting of all, yours is the only }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 
form of intelligent life known which stops growing upon reaching matu\-}{\expnd-2\expndtw-12\cf1 rity."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 Drake grinned at him. Rose felt her heart suddenly race. It was the nicest }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 thing about him, that grin, and he was using it perfectly naturally. It wasn't }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 
forced or false. He was adjusting to the presence of this alien creature. He }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 was being pleasant\emdash and he must be doing it for her. She loved that thought }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
and repeated it to herself. He was doing it for her; he was being nice to the }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 Hawkinsite for her sake.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Drake was saying with his grin, "You don't look very large, Dr. Tholan. I }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 should say that you are an inch taller than I am, which would make you six }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 
feet two inches tall. Is it that you are young, or is it that the others on your }{\expnd-2\expndtw-12\cf1 world are generally small?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "Neither," said the Hawkinsite. "We grow at a diminishing rate with the }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 years, so that at my age it would take fifteen years to grow an additional }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 inch, but\emdash 
and this is the important point\emdash we never }{\i\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 entirely }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 stop. And, of course, as a consequence, we never entirely die."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Drake gasped and even Rose felt herself sitting stiffly upright. This was }{\expnd-2\expndtw-12\cf1 something new. This was something which, to her knowledge, the few expe\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1 
ditions to Hawkin's Planet had never brought back. She was torn with }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 excitement but held an exclamation back and let Drake speak for her.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 He said, "They don't entirely die? You're not trying to say, sir, that the }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 people on Hawkin's Planet are immortal?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 "No people are truly immortal. If there were no other way to die, there}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 would always be accident, and if that fails, there is boredom. Few of us live }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 more than several centuries of your time. Still, it is unpleasant to think that }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 
death may come involuntarily. It is something which, to us, is extremely horrible. It bothers me even as I think of it now, this thought that }{\i\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 against }{\i\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 my will and despite all care, }{
\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 death may come."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex95 "We," said Drake, grimly, "are quite used to it."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex95 "You Earthmen live with the thought; we do not. And this is why we are disturbed to find that the incidence of Inhibition Death has been increasing }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex95 in recent years."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex95 "You have not yet explained," said Drake, "just what the Inhibition }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex95 Death is, but let me guess. Is the Inhibition Death a pathological cessation }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1\charscalex95 of growth?"}{

\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1\charscalex95 "Exactly."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex95 "And how long after growth's cessation does death follow?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex95 "Within the year. It is a wasting disease, a tragic one, and absolutely }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1\charscalex95 incurable."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex95 "What causes it?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex95 The Hawkinsite paused a long time before answering, and even then }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex95 there was something strained and uneasy about the way he spoke. "Mr. }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex95 
Smollett, we know nothing about the cause of the disease."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex95 Drake nodded thoughtfully. Rose was following the conversation as }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex95 though she were a spectator at a tennis match.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex95 Drake said, "And why do you come to Earth to study this disease?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1\charscalex95 "Because again Earthmen are unique. They are the only intelligent beings }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex95 who are immune. The Inhibition Death affects }{\i\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex95 all }{
\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex95 the other races. Do your }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex95 biologists know that, Mrs. Smollett?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex95 He had addressed her suddenly, so that she jumped slightly. She said, }{\cf1\charscalex95 "No, they don't."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex95 "I am not surprised. That piece of information is the result of very recent research. The Inhibition Death is easily diagnosed incorrectly and the inci\-}{\cf1\charscalex95 
dence is much lower on the other planets. In fact, it is a strange thing, }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex95 something to philosophize over, that the incidence of the Death is highest }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex95 on 
my world, which is closest to Earth, and lower on each more distant }{\cf1\charscalex95 planet\emdash so that it is lowest on the world of the star Tempora, which is }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex95 
farthest from Earth, while Earth itself is immune. Somewhere in the bio\-chemistry of the Earthite, there is the secret of that immunity. How inter\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex95 esting it would be to find it."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1\charscalex95 Drake said, "But look here, you can't say Earth is immune. From where I }{\cf1\charscalex95 sit, it looks as if the incidence is a hundred per cent. All Earthmen stop }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex95 
growing and all Earthmen die. We've }{\i\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex95 all }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex95 got the Inhibition Death."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex95 "Not at all. Earthmen live up to seventy years after the cessation of }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex95 growth. That is not the Death as }{\i\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex95 we }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex95 know it. }{
\i\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex95 Your }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex95 equivalent disease is }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex95 rather one of unrestrained growth. Cancer, you call it. \emdash But come, I bore }{
\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1\charscalex95 you."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Rose protested instantly. Drake did likewise with even more vehemence, }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 but the Hawkinsite determinedly changed the subject. It was then that Rose }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
had her first pang of suspicion, for Drake circled Harg Tholan warily with }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 his words, worrying him, jabbing at him, attempting always to get the infor\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
mation back to the point where the Hawkinsite had left off. Not badly, not }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 unskillfully, but Rose knew him, and could tell what he was after. And what }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 could he be after but that which was demanded
 by his profession? And, as }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1 though in response to her thoughts, the Hawkinsite took up the phrase }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 which had begun careening in her mind like a broken record on a perpetual }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 
turntable.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 He asked, "Did you not say you were a policeman?"}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Drake said, curtly, "Yes."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "Then there is something I would like to request you to do for me. I have been wantisg to all this evening, since I discovered your profession, and yet }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 
I hesitate. I do not wish to be troublesome to my host and hostess."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "We'll do what we can."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 "I have a profound curiosity as to how Earthmen live; a curiosity which is not perhaps shared by the generality of my countrymen. So I wonder, could }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
you show me through one of the police departments on your planet?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "I do not belong to a police department in exactly the way you imagine," }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 said Drake, cautiously. "However, I am known to the New York police }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
department. I can manage it without trouble. Tomorrow?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 "That would be most convenient for me. Would I be able to visit the }{\expnd-2\expndtw-12\cf1 Missing Persons Bureau?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "The what?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 The Hawkinsite drew his four standing legs closer together, as if he were }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1 becoming more intense. "It is a hobby of mine, a little queer comer of }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 
interest I have always had. I understand you have a group of police officers }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 whose sole duty it is to search for men who are missing."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "And women and children," added Drake. "But why should that interest }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 you so particularly?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "Because there again you are unique. There is no such thing as a missing }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 person on our planet. I can't explain the mechanism to you, of course, but }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 
among the people of other worlds, there is always an awareness of one }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 another's presence, especially if there is a strong, affectionate tie. We are }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
always aware of each other's exact location, no matter where on the planet we might be."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 Rose grew excited again. The scientific expeditions to Hawkin's Planet }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 had always had the greatest difficulty in penetrating the internal emotional }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 
mechanisms of the natives, and here was one who talked freely, who would }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 explain! She forgot to worry about Drake and intruded into the conversa\-tions. "Can you feel such awareness even now? On Earth?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 The Hawkinsite said, "You mean across space? No, I'm afraid not. But }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 you see the importance of the matter. All the uniqueness of Earth should be}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 linked. If the lack of this sense can be explained, perhaps the immunity to }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 
Inhibition Death can be, also. Besides, it strikes me as very curious that any form of intelligent community life can be built among people who lack this }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 community awareness. How can an Earthman tell, for instance, when he has }{
\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 formed a congenial sub-group, a family? How can you two, for instance, know that there is a true tie between you?"}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Rose found herself nodding. How strongly she missed such a sense!}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 But Drake only smiled. "We have our ways. It is as difficult to explain what we call 'love' to you as it is for you to explain your sense to us."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 "I suppose so. Yet tell me truthfully, Mr. Smollett\emdash if Mrs. Smollett were }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 to leave this room and enter another without your having seen her do so, }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 would you really not 
be aware of her location?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "I really would not."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 The Hawkinsite said, "Amazing." He hesitated, then added, "Please do }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 not be offended at the fact that I find it revolting as well."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 After the light in the bedroom had been put out, Rose went to the door }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 three times, opening it a crack and peering out. She could feel Drake watch\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 
ing her. There was a hard kind of amusement in his voice as he asked, }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 finally, "What's the matter?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 She said, "I want to talk to you."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "Are you afraid our friend can hear?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 Rose was whispering. She got into bed and put her head on his pillow so }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 that she could whisper better. She said, "Why were you talking about the }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 Inhibition Death to Dr. Tholan?"}{

\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 "I am taking an interest in your work, Rose. You've always wanted me to }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 take an interest."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "I'd rather you weren't sarcastic." She was almost violent, as nearly vio\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 lent as she could be in a whisper. "I know that there's something of your }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 own interest in this\emdash of 
}{\i\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 police }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 interest, probably. What is it?" ;   He said, "I'll talk to you tomorrow." }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 i   "No, right now."}{
\par }{\cf1 He put his hand under her head, lifting it. For a wild moment she }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 thought he was going to kiss her\emdash 
just kiss her on impulse the way husbands sometimes did, or as she imagined they sometimes did. Drake never did, and }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 he didn't now.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 He merely held her close and whispered, "Why are you so interested?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 His hand was almost brutally hard upon the nape of her neck, so that she }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 stiffened and tried to draw back. Her voice was more than a whisper now. }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 "Stop it, Drake."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 He said, "I want no questions from you and no interference. You do your }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 job, and I'll do mine."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "The nature of my job is open and known."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "The nature of my job," he retorted, "isn't, by definition. But I'll tell you}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex87 this. Our six-legged friend is here in this house for some definite reason. You }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex87 weren't picked as biologist in charge for any random reason. Do you know }{\cf1\charscalex87 
that two days ago, he'd been inquiring about me at the Commission?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex87 "You're joking."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex87 "Don't believe that for a minute. There are depths to this that you know }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex87 nothing about. But that's my job and I won't discuss it with you any further. }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex87 
Do you understand?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex87 "No, but I won't question you if you don't want me to."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex87 "Then go to sleep."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex87 She lay stiffly on her back and the minutes passed, and then the quarter-hour
s. She was trying to fit the pieces together. Even with what Drake had told her, the curves and colors refused to blend. She wondered what Drake }{\cf1\charscalex87 would say if he knew she had a recording of that night's conversation!}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex87 One picture remained clear in her mind at that moment. It hovered over }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex87 her mockingly. The Hawkinsite, at the end of the long evening, had turned }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex87 
to her and said gravely, "Good night, Mrs. Smollett. You are a most charm\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex87 ing hostess."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex87 She had desperately wanted to giggle at the time. How could he call her a }{\cf1\charscalex87 charming hostess? To him, she could only be a horror, a monstrosity with }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex87 
too few limbs and a too-narrow face.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex87 And then, as the Hawkinsite delivered himself of this completely mean\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex87 ingless piece of politeness, Drake had turned white! For one instant, his eyes }{\cf1\charscalex87 
had burned with something that looked like terror.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex87 She had never before known Drake to show fear of anything, and the }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex87 picture of that instant of pure panic remained with her until all her thoughts finally sagged into the oblivion of sleep.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex87 It was noon before Rose was at her desk the next day. She had deliber\-ately waited until Drake and the Hawkinsite had left, since only then was she able to remove the small recorder that had been behind Drake's arm\-}{
\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex87 chair the previous evening. She had had no original intention of keeping its }{\cf1\charscalex87 presence secret from him. It was just that he had come home so late, and }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex87 
she couldn't say anything about it with the Hawkinsite present. Later on, of course, things had changed\emdash }{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex87 The placing of the recorder had been only a routine maneuver. The Hawkinsite's statements and intonations needed to be preserved for future }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex87 
intensive studies by various specialists at the Institute. It had been hidden in order to avoid the distortions of self-consciousness that the visibility of such }{\cf1\charscalex87 
a device would bring, and now it couldn't be shown to the members of the Institute at all. It would have to serve a different function altogether. A }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex87 rather nasty function.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex87 She was going to spy on Drake.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex87 She touched the little box with her fingers and wondered, irrelevantly, how Drake was going to manage, that day. Social intercourse between in-}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex86 habited worlds was, even now, not so commonplace that the sight of a Hawkinsite on the city streets would not succeed in drawing crowds. But }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex86 Drake would manage, she knew. Drake always managed.}{

\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex86 She listened once again to the sounds of last evening, repeating the inter\-}{\cf1\charscalex86 esting moments. She was dissatisfied with what Drake had told her. Why }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex86 
should the Hawkinsite have been interested in the two of them particularly? }{\cf1\charscalex86 Yet Drake wouldn't lie. She would have liked to check at the Security Commission, but she knew she could not do that. Besides, the thought }{
\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex86 made her feel disloyal; Drake would definitely not lie.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex86 But, then again, why should Harg Tholan not have investigated them? He }{\cf1\charscalex86 
might have inquired similarly about the families of all the biologists at the Institute. It would be no more than natural to attempt to choose the home he would find most pleasant by his own standards, whatever they were.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex86 And if he had\emdash even if he had investigated only the Smolletts\emdash why should that create the great change in Drake from intense hostility to in\-tense interest? Drake undoubtedly had knowledge he was keeping to him\-
self. Only heaven knew how much.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex86 Her thoughts churned slowly through the possibilities of interstellar in\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex86 trigue. So far, to be sure, there were no signs of hostility or ill-feeling among }{\cf1\charscalex86 
any of the five intelligent races known to inhabit the Galaxy. As yet they }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex86 were spaced at intervals too wide for enmity. Even the barest contact among }{\cf1\charscalex86 
them was all but impossible. Economic and political interests just had no point at which to conflict.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex86 But that was only her idea and she was not a member of the Security Commission. If there }{\i\cf1\charscalex86 were }{\cf1\charscalex86 conflict, if there }{\i\cf1\charscalex86 were }{\cf1\charscalex86 danger, if there }{
\i\cf1\charscalex86 were }{\cf1\charscalex86 any reason to suspect that the mission of a Hawkinsite might be other than }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex86 peaceful\emdash Drake would know.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex86 Yet was Drake sufficiently high in the councils of the Security Commis\-}{\cf1\charscalex86 sion to know, off-hand, the dangers involved in the visit of a Hawkinsite }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex86 
physician? She had never thought of his position as more than that of a very }{\cf1\charscalex86 minor functionary in the Commission; he had never presented himself as more. And yet\emdash }{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex86 Might he be more?}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex86 She shrugged at the thought. It was reminiscent of Twentieth Century spy novels and of costume dramas of the days when there existed such things as atom bomb secrets.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex86 The thought of costume dramas decided her. Unlike Drake, she wasn't a }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex86 real policeman, and she didn't know how a real policeman would go about it. }{\cf1\charscalex86 
But she knew how such things were done in the old dramas.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex86 She drew a piece of paper toward her and, with a quick motion, slashed a }{\cf1\charscalex86 vertical pencil mark down its center. She headed one column "Harg Tho\-
lan," the other "Drake." Under "Harg Tholan" she wrote "bonafide" and thoughtfully put three question marks after it. After all, was he a doctor at}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex91 all, or was he what could only be described as an interstellar agent? What }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex91 proof had even the Institute of his profession except his own statements? }{
\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1\charscalex91 Was that why Drake had quizzed him so relentlessly concerning the Inhibi\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex91 tion Death? Had he boned up in advance and tried to catch the Hawkinsite }{
\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex91 in an error?}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex91 For a moment, she was irresolute; then, springing to her feet, she folded }{\cf1\charscalex91 the paper, put it in the pocket of her short jacket, and swept out of her }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex91 
office. She said nothing to any of those she passed as she left the Institute. She left no word at the reception desk as to where she was going, or when }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1\charscalex91 she would be back.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 Once outside, she hurried into the third-level tube and waited for an }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1\charscalex91 empty compartment to pass. The two minutes that elapsed seemed unbear\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1\charscalex91 
ably long. It was all she could do to say, "New York Academy of Medicine," }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex91 into the mouthpiece just above the seat.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1\charscalex91 The door of the little cubicle closed, and the sound of the air flowing past }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex91 the compartment hissed upward in pitch.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex91 The New York Academy of Medicine had been enlarged both vertically }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex91 and horizontally in the past two decades. The library alone occupied one }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex91 
entire wing of the third floor. Undoubtedly, if all the books, pamphlets and }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex91 periodicals it contained were in their original printed form, rather than in }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex91 
microfilm, the entire building, huge though it was, would not have been }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1\charscalex91 sufficiently vast to hold them. As it was, Rose knew there was already talk of }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex91 
limiting printed works to the last five years, rather than to the last ten, as }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1\charscalex91 was now the case.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 Rose, as a member of the Academy, had free entry to the library. She hurried toward the alcoves devoted to extraterrestrial medicine and was }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex91 relieved to find them unoccupied.}{

\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex91 It might have been wiser to have enlisted the aid of a librarian, but she }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex91 chose not to. The thinner and smaller the trail she left, the less likely it was }{
\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex91 that Drake might pick it up.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex91 And so, without guidance, she was satisfied to travel along the shelves, }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1\charscalex91 
following the titles anxiously with her fingers. The books were almost all in English, though some were in German or Russian. None, ironically enough, }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex91 were in extraterrestrial symb
olisms. There was a room somewhere for such }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1\charscalex91 originals, but they were available only to official translators.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1\charscalex91 Her traveling eye and finger stopped. She had found what she was looking }{\expnd-2\expndtw-14\cf1\charscalex91 for.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex91 She dragged half a dozen volumes from the shelf and spread them out }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex91 upon the small dark table. She fumbled for the light switch and opened the }{
\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1\charscalex91 first of the volumes. It was entitled }{\i\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1\charscalex91 Studies on Inhibition* }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1\charscalex91 She leafed through }{\cf1\charscalex91 
it and then turned to the author index. The name of Harg Tholan was }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1\charscalex91 there.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\super\charscalex87 w}{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex87  One by one, she looked up the references indicated, then returned to the }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex87 
shelves for translations of such original papers as she could find.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex87 She spent more than two hours in the Academy. When she was finished, }{\cf1\charscalex87 she knew this much\emdash there was a Hawkinsite doc
tor named Harg Tholan, who was an expert on the Inhibition Death. He was connected with the }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex87 Hawkinsite research organization with which the Institute had been in cor\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex87 
respondence. Of course, the Harg Tholan she knew might simply be imper\-}{\cf1\charscalex87 sonating an actual doctor to make the role more realistic, but why should }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex87 that be necessary?}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex87 She took the paper out of her pocket and, where she had written "bo-nafide" with three question marks, she now wrote a YES in capitals. She went back to the Institute and at 4 }{\scaps\cf1\charscalex87 p.m. }{\cf1\charscalex87 w
as once again at her desk. She }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex87 called the switchboard to say that she would not answer any phone calls and }{\cf1\charscalex87 then she locked her door.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex87 Underneath the column headed "Harg Tholan" she now wrote two ques\-}{\cf1\charscalex87 tions: "Why did Harg Tholan come to Earth alone?" She lef
t considerable space. Then, "What is his interest in the Missing Persons Bureau?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex87 Certainly, the Inhibition Death was all the Hawkinsite said it was. From }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex87 her reading at the Academy, it was obvious that it occupied the major share }{
\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex87 of medical effort on Hawkin's Planet. It was more feared there than cancer }{\cf1\charscalex87 
was on Earth. If they had thought the answer to it lay on Earth, the Hawkinsites would have sent a full-scale expedition. Was it distrust and suspicion on their part that made them send only one investigator?}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex87 What was it Harg Tholan had said the night before? The incidence of the }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex87 Death was highest upon his own world, which was closest to Earth, lowest }{\cf1\charscalex87 
upon the world farthest from Earth. Add to that the fact implied by the Hawkinsite, and verified by her own readings at the Academy, that the incidence had expanded enormously since interstellar contact had been made with Earth. . . .}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex87 Slowly and reluctantly she came to one conclusion. The inhabitants of Hawkin's Planet might have decided that somehow Earth had d
iscovered the cause of the Inhibition Death, and was deliberately fostering it among the alien peoples of the Galaxy, with the intention, perhaps, of becoming }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex87 supreme among the stars.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex87 She rejected this conclusion with what was almost panic. It could not be; }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex87 it was impossible. In the first place, Earth }{\i\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex87 wouldn 't }{
\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex87 do such a horrible thing. }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex87 Secondly, it }{\i\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex87 couldn 't}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex87 As far as scientific advance was concerned, the beings of Hawkin's Planet }{\cf1\charscalex87 were certainly the equals of Earthmen. The Death had occurred there for }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex87 thou
sands of years and their medical record was one of total failure. Surely, }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex87 Earth, in its long-distance investigations into alien biochemistry, could not }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex87 
have succeeded so quickly. In fact, as far as she knew, there were no investi-}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex89 gations to speak of into Hawkinsite pathology on the part of Earth biologists }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex89 and physicians.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex89 Yet all the evidence indicated that Harg Tholan had come in suspicion and had been received in suspicion. Carefully, she wrote down under the question, "Why did Harg Tholan come to Earth alone?" the answer, "Haw-kin's Planet }{
\i\cf1\charscalex89 believes }{\cf1\charscalex89 Earth is causing the Inhibition Death."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex89 But, then, what was this business about the Bureau of Missing Persons? As a scientist, she was rigorous about the theories she developed. }{\i\cf1\charscalex89 All }{\cf1\charscalex89 the facts had to fit in, not merely some of them.}{

\par }{\cf1\charscalex89 Missing Persons Bureau! If it was a false trail, deliberately intended to }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex89 deceive Drake, it had been done clumsily, since it came only after an hour of }{\cf1\charscalex89 
discussion of the Inhibition Death.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex89 Was it intended as an opportunity to study Drake? If so, why? Was this perhaps the }{\i\cf1\charscalex89 major }{\cf1\charscalex89 point? The Hawkinsite had investigated Drake before }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex89 
coming to them. Had he come because Drake was a policeman with entry to }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex89 Bureaus of Missing Persons?}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex89 But why? Why?}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex89 She gave it up and turned to the column headed "Drake."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex89 And there a question wrote itself, not in pen and ink upon the paper, but in the much more visible letters of thought on mind. }{\i\cf1\charscalex89 Why did he marry me? }{\cf1\charscalex89 
thought Rose, and she covered her eyes with her hands so that the un\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex89 friendly light was excluded.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex89 They had met quite by accident somewhat more than a year before, when he had moved into the apartment house in which she then lived. Polite greetings had somehow become friendly conversation and this, in turn, h
ad led to occasional dinners in a neighborhood restaurant. It had been very friendly and normal and an exciting new experience, and she had fallen in }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1\charscalex89 love.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex89 When he asked her to marry him, she was pleased\emdash and overwhelmed. At }{\cf1\charscalex89 the time, she had many explanations for it. He appreciated her intelligence }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex89 
and friendliness. She was a nice girl. She would make a good wife, a splendid }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex89 companion.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex89 She had tried all those explanations and had half-believed every one of them. But half-belief was not enough.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex89 It was not that she had any definite fault to find in Drake as a husband. }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex89 He was always thoughtful, kind and a gentleman. Their married life was not }{\cf1\charscalex89 
one of passion, and yet it suited the paler emotional surges of the late thirties. She wasn't nineteen. What did she expect?}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex89 That was it; she wasn't nineteen. She wasn't beautiful, or charming, or glamorous. What did she expect? Could she have expected Drake\emdash hand\-
some and rugged, whose interest in intellectual pursuits was quite minor, who neither asked about her work in all the months of their marriage, nor offered to discuss his own with her? Why, then, did he marry her?}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 ' But there was no answer to that question, and it had nothing to do with }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 what Rose was trying to do now. It was extraneous, she told herself fiercely; it
 was a childish distraction from the task she had set herself. She was acting }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 like a girl of nineteen, after all, with no chronological excuse for it.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 She found that the point of her pencil had somehow broken, and took a }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 new one. In the column headed "Drake" she wrote, "Why is he suspicious }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1 
of Harg Tholan?" and under it she put an arrow pointing to the other }{\expnd-3\expndtw-16\cf1 column.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 What she had already written there was sufficient explanation. If Earth }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 was spreading the Inhibition Death, or if Earth knew it was suspected of }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
such a deed, then, obviously, it would be preparing for eventual retaliation }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1 on the part of the aliens. In fact, the setting would actually be one of }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 
preliminary maneuvering for the first interstellar war of history. It was an }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 adequate but horrible explanation.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 Now there was left the second question, the one she could not answer. She wrote it slowly, "Why Drake's reaction to Tholan's words, 'You are a }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 most charming hostess'?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1 She tried to bring back the exact setting. The Hawkinsite had said it }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 innocuously, matter-of-factly, politely, and Drake had frozen at the sound of }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
it. Over and over, she had listened to that particular passage in the record\-}{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 ing. An Earthman might have said it in just such an inconsequential tone on }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 
leaving a routine cocktail party. The recording did not carry the sight of }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Drake's face; she had only her memory for that. Drake's eyes had become }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 
alive with fear and hate, and Drake was one who feared practically nothing. }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 What was there to fear in the phrase, "You are a most charming hostess," }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 
that could upset him so? Jealousy? Absurd. The feeling that Tholan had }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 been sarcastic? Maybe, though unlikely. She was sure Tholan was sincere.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 She gave it up and put a large question mark under that second question. }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 There were two of them now, one under "Harg Tholan" and one under }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 
"Drake." Could there be a connection between Tholan's interest in missing }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 persons and Drake's reaction to a polite party phrase? She could think of }{\expnd-3\expndtw-17\cf1 none.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 She put her head down upon her arms. It was getting dark in the office }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 and she was very tired. For a while, she must have hovered in that queer }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 
land between waking and sleeping, when thoughts and phrases lose the }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 control of the conscious and disport themselves erratically and surrealisti-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 ca
lly through one's head. But, no matter where they danced and leaped, }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 they always returned to that one phrase, "You are a most charming hostess." }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 
Sometimes she heard it in Harg Tholan's cultured, lifeless voice, and some\-times in Drake's vibrant one. When Drake said it, it was full of love, full of a }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 love she never heard from him. She liked to hear him say it.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 She startled herself to wakefulness. It was quite dark in the office now, }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 and she put on the desk light. She blinked, then frowned a little. Another}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex92 thought must have come to her in that fitful half-sleep. There had been another phrase which had upset Drake. What was it? Her forehead fur\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 
rowed with mental effort. It had not been last evening. It was not anything }{\cf1\charscalex92 in the recorded conversation, so it must have been before that. Nothing }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex92 came and she grew restless.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 Looking at her watch, she gasped. It was almost eight. They would be at home waiting for her.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex92 But she did not want to go home. She did not want to face them. Slowly, }{\cf1\charscalex92 she took up the paper upon which she had scrawled her thoughts of the }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 
afternoon, tore it into little pieces and let them flutter into the little atomic-}{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex92 flash ashtray upon her desk. They were gone in a little flare and nothing was }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 left of them.}{

\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 If only nothing were left of the thoughts they represented as well.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 It was no use. She would have to go home.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex92 They were not there waiting for her, after all. She came upon them getting out of a gyrocab just as she emerged from the tubes on to street }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 level. The gyrocabbie, wide-eyed, gazed after his
 fares for a moment, then }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 hovered upward and away. By unspoken mutual consent, the three waited until they had entered the apartment before speaking.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 Rose said disinterestedly, "I hope you have had a pleasant day, Dr. Tho-}{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex92 lan."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 "Quite. And a fascinating and profitable one as well, I think."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 "Have you had a chance to eat?" Though Rose had not herself eaten, she }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex92 was anything but hungry.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex92 "Yes, indeed."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex92 Drake interrupted, "We had lunch and supper sent up to us. Sand\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 wiches." He sounded tired.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 Rose said, "Hello, Drake." It was the first time she had addressed him.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 Drake scarcely looked at her. "Hello."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex92 The Hawkinsite said, "Your tomatoes are remarkable vegetables. We have }{\cf1\charscalex92 nothing to compare with them in taste on our own planet. I believe I ate }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 t
wo dozen, as well as an entire bottle of tomato derivative."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex92 "Ketchup," explained Drake, briefly.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex92 Rose said, "And your visit at the Missing Persons Bureau, Dr. Tholan? }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex92 You say you found it profitable?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex92 "I should say so. Yes."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex92 Rose kept her back to him. She plumped up sofa cushions as she said, "In }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1\charscalex92 what way?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 "I find it most interesting that the large majority of missing persons are }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex92 males. Wives frequently report missing husbands, while the reverse is practi\-}{
\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 cally never the case."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex92 Rose said, "Oh, that's not mysterious, Dr. Tholan. You simply don't }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 realize the economic setup we have on Earth. On this planet, you see, it is}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 the male who is usually the member of the family that maintains it as an }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 economic unit. He is the one whose labor is repaid in units of currency. The }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 
wife's function is generally that of taking care of home and children."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "Surely this is not universal!"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 Drake put in, "More or less. If you are thinking of my wife, she is an }{\expnd-2\expndtw-12\cf1 example of the minority of women who are capable of making their own way }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 in the world."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Rose looked at him swiftly. Was he being sarcastic?}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 The Hawkinsite said, "Your implication, Mrs. Smollett, is that women, }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 being economically dependent upon their male companions, find it less }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 feasible to disappear?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 "That's a gentle way of putting it," said Rose, "but that's about it."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 "And would you call the Missing Persons Bureau of New York a fair }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 sampling of such cases in the planet at large?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 "Why, I should think so."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 The Hawkinsite said, abruptly, "And is there, then, an economic explana\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 tion for the fact that since interstellar travel has been developed, the per\-}{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 
centage of young males among the missing is more pronounced than ever?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 It was Drake who answered, with a verbal snap. "Good lord, that's even }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 less of a mystery than the other. Nowadays, the runaway has all space to }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 
disappear into. Anyone who wants to get away from trouble need only hop the nearest space freighter. They're always looking for crewmen, no ques\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 tions asked, and it would be almost impossible to locate the runaway after }{
\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 that, if he really wanted to stay out of circulation."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "And almost always young men in their first year of marriage."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1 Rose laughed suddenly. She said, "Why, that's just the time a man's }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 troubles seem the greatest. If he survives the first year, there is usually no need to disappear at all."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 Drake was obviously not amused. Rose thought again that he looked tired }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 and unhappy. }{\i\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 Why }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 did he insist on bearing the load alone? And then she thought
 that perhaps he had to.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 The Hawkinsite said, suddenly, "Would it offend you if I disconnected for a period of time?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 Rose said, "Not at all. I hope you haven't had too exhausting a day. Since }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 you come from a planet whose gravity is greater than that of Earth's, I'm }{\expnd-2\expndtw-12\cf1 
afraid we too easily presume that you would show greater endurance than we }{\expnd-3\expndtw-15\cf1 do."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "Oh, I am not tired in a physical sense." He looked for a moment at her legs and blinked very rapidly, indicating amusement. "You know, I keep }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 expecting Earthmen to 
fall either forward or backward in view of their }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 meager equipment of standing limbs. You must pardon me if my comment }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 is overfamiliar, but your mention of the lesser gravity of Earth brought it to }{
\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 my mind. On my planet, two legs would simply not be enough. But this is}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 all beside the point at the moment. It is just that I have been absorbing so }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 many new and unusual concepts that I feel the desire for a little disconnec\-}{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 tion."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 Rose shrugged inwardly. Well, that was as close as one race could get to }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 another, a
nyway. As nearly as the expeditions to Hawkin's Planet could make out, Hawkinsites had the faculty for disconnecting their conscious }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 
mind from all its bodily functions and allowing it to sink into an undisturbed meditative process for periods of time lasting up to terrestrial days. Hawkin\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 sites found the process pleasant, even necessary sometimes, though no }{
\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 Earthman could truly say what function it served.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Conversely, it had never been entirely possible for Earthmen to explain }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 the concept of "sleep" to a Hawkinsite, or to any extraterrestrial. What an }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 
Earthman would call sleep or a dream, a Hawkinsite would view as an }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 alarming sign of mental disintegration.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 Rose thought uneasily, }{\i\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 Here is another way Earthmen are unique.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 The Hawkinsite was backing away, drooping so that his forelimbs swept }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 the floor in polite farewell. Drake nodded curtly at him as he disappeared }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1 
behind the bend in the corridor. They heard his door open, close, then }{\expnd-3\expndtw-17\cf1 silence.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 After minutes in which the silence was thick between them, Drake's chair }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 creaked as he shifted restlessly. With a mild horror, Rose noticed blood }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 
upon his lips. She thought to herself, }{\i\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 He's in some kind of trouble. I've got to }{\i\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 talk to him. I can't let it go on like this.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 She said, "Drake!"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 Drake seemed to look at her from a far, far distance. Slowly, his eyes focused closer at hand and he said, "What is it? Are you through for the }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex91 day, too?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex91 "No, I'm ready to begin. It's the tomorrow you spoke of. Aren't you going }{\cf1\charscalex91 to speak to me?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 "Pardon me?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex91 "Last night, you said you would speak to me tomorrow. I am ready now."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex91 Drake frowned. His eyes withdrew beneath a lowered brow and Rose felt }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 some of her resolution begin to leave her. He said, "I thought it was agreed }{\cf1\charscalex91 
that you would not question me about my business in this matter."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 "I think it's too late for that. I know too much about your business by }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1\charscalex91 now."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 "What do you mean?" he shouted, jumping to his feet. Recollecting }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex91 himself, he approached, laid his hands upon her shoulders and repeated in a }{\cf1\charscalex91 lower voice, "What do you mean?"}{

\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 Rose kept her eyes upon her hands, which rested limply in her lap. She bore the painfully gripping fingers patiently, and said slowly, "Dr. Tholan thinks that Earth is spreading the Inhibition Death purposely. That's it, isn't it?"}{

\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 She waited. Slowly, the grip relaxed and he was standing there, hands at }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 his side, face baffled and unhappy. He said, "Where did you get that no\-}{\expnd-2\expndtw-12\cf1 tion?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1 "It's true, isn't it?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 He said breathlessly, unnaturally, "I want to know exactly why you say that. Don't play foolish games with me, Rose. This is for keeps."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw2\cf1 "If}{\cf1  }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 I tell you, will you answer one question?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "What question?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "Is Earth spreading the disease deliberately, Drake?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Drake flung his hands upward. "Oh, for Heaven's sake!"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 He knelt before her. He took her hands in his and she could feel their }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 trembling. He was forcing his voice into soothing, loving syllables.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 He was saying, "Rose dear, look, you've got something red-hot by the tail }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 and you think you can use it to tease me in a little husband-wife repartee. }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 
No, I'm not asking much. Just tell me exactly what causes you to say what\emdash  }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 what you have just said." He was terribly earnest about it.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 "I was at the New York Academy of Medicine this afternoon. I did some }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 reading there."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "But why? What made you do it?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 "You seemed so interested in the Inhibition Death, for one thing. And }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 Dr. Tholan made those statements about the incidence increasing since }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 
interstellar travel, and being the highest on the planet nearest Earth." She }{\expnd-3\expndtw-16\cf1 paused.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "And your reading?" he prompted. "What about your reading, Rose?" }{\cf1 c}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 '    She said, "It backs him up. All I could do was to skim hastily into the }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1 direction of their research in recent decades. It seems obvious to me, }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 
though, that at least some of the Hawkinsites are considering the possibility }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 the Inhibition Death originates on Earth."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "Do they say so outright?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "No. Or, if they have, I haven't seen it." She gazed at him in surprise. In }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1 a matter like this, certainly the government would have investigated }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Haw
kinsite research on the matter. She said, gently, "Don't you know about }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Hawkinsite research in the matter, Drake? The government\emdash "}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "Never mind about that." Drake had moved away from her and now he }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 turned again. His eyes were bright. He said, as though making a wonderful }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
discovery, "Why, you're an expert in this!"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 Was she? Did he find that out only now that he needed her? Her nostrils }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 flared and she said flatly, "I am a biologist."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 He said, "Yes, I know that, but I mean your particular specialty is growth. }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Didn't you once tell me you had done work on growth?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "You might call it that. I've had twenty papers published on the relation\-}{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 ship of nucleic acid fine structure and embryonic development on my Can\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 cer Society grant."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 "Good. I should have thought of that." He was choked with a new excite\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 ment. "Tell me, Rose\emdash  Look, I'm sorry if I lost my temper with you a }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 
moment ago. You'd be as competent as anyone to understand the direction }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 of their researches if you read about it, wouldn't you?"}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 "Fairly competent, yes."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "Then tell me how they think the disease is spread. The details, I mean."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "Oh, now look, that's asking a little too much. 1 spent a few hours in the Academy, that's all. I'd need much more time than that to be able to answer }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 your question."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "An intelligent guess, at least. You can't imagine how important it is."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 She said, doubtfully, "Of course, 'Studies on Inhibition' is a major treatise }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 in the field. It would summarize all of the available research data."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "Yes? And how recent is it?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "It's one of those periodic things. The last volume is about a year old."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 "Does it have any account of }{\i\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 his }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 work in it?" His finger jabbed in the }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 direction of Harg Tholan's bedroom.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1 "More than anyone else's. He's an outstanding worker in the field. I }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 looked over his papers especially."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 "And what are his theories about the origin of the disease? Try to remem\-ber, Rose."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1 She shook her head at him. "I could swear he blames Earth, but he }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 admits they know nothing about how the disease is spread. I could swear to }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 that, too."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 He stood stiffly before her. His strong hands were clenched into fists at his }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 side and his words were scarcely more than a mutter. "It could be a matter }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 of complete over
estimation. Who knows\emdash "}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 He whirled away. "I'll find out about this right now, Rose. Thank you for your help."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 She ran after him. "What are you going to do?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "Ask him a few questions." He was rummaging through the drawers of his desk and now his right hand withdrew. It held a needle-gun.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 She cried, "No, Drake!"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1 He shook her off roughly, and turned down the corridor toward the }{\expnd-2\expndtw-12\cf1 Hawkinsite's bedroom.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Drake threw the door open and entered. Rose was at his heels, still trying }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 to grasp his arm, but now he stopped and looked at Harg Tholan.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 The Hawkinsite was standing there motionless, eyes unfocused, his four }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 
standing limbs sprawled out in four directions as far as they would go. Rose felt ashamed of intruding, as though she were violating an intimate rite. But }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Drake, apparently unconcerned, walked to within four feet of the creature }
{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 and stood there. They were face to face, Drake holding the needle-gun easily }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 at a level of about the center of the Hawkinsite's torso.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 Drake said, "Now keep quiet. He'll gradually become aware of me."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex95 ' "How do you know?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex95 'The answer was flat. "I }{\i\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex95 know. }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex95 Now get out of here."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex95 But she did not move and Drake was too absorbed to pay her further }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex95 attention.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex95 Portions of the skin on the Hawkinsite's face were beginning to quiver }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex95 slightly. It was rather repulsive and Rose found herself preferring not to }{
\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1\charscalex95 watch.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex95 Drake suddenly, "That's about all, Dr. Tholan. Don't throw in connec\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex95 tion with any of the limbs. Your sense organs and voice box will be quite }{
\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1\charscalex95 enough."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex95 The Hawkinsite's voice was dim. "Why do you invade my disconnection }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex95 chamber?" Then, more strongly, "And why are you armed?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex95 His head wobbled slightly atop a still frozen torso. He had, apparently, }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex95 followed Drake's suggestion against limb connection. Rose wondered how }{
\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex95 Drake knew such partial reconnection to be possible. She herself had not }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex95 known of it.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex95 The Hawkinsite spoke again. "What do you want?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex95 And this time Drake answered. He said, "The answer to certain ques\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1\charscalex95 tions."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex95 "With a gun in your hand? I would not humor your discourtesy so far."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1\charscalex95 "You would not merely be humoring me. You might be saving your own }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1\charscalex95 life."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex95 "That would be a matter of considerable indifference to me, under the }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex95 circumstances. I am sorry, Mr. Smollett, that the duties toward a guest are so badly understood on Earth."}{

\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex95 "You are no guest of mine, Dr. Tholan," said Drake. "You entered my house on false pretenses. You had some reason for it, some way you had }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex95 
planned of using me to further your own purposes. I have no compunction }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex95 in reversing the process."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex95 "You had better shoot. It will save time."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex95 "You are convinced that you will answer no questions? That, in itself, is }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex95 suspicious. It seems that you consider certain answers to be more important }{
\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex95 than your life."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex95 "I consider the principles of courtesy to be very important. You, as an }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex95 Earthman, may not understand."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex95 "Perhaps not. But I, as an Earthman, understand one thing." Drake had }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex95 jumped forward, faster than Rose could cry out, faster than the Hawkinsite }{
\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex95 could connect his limbs. When he sprang backward, the flexible hose of }{\cf1\charscalex95 Harg Tholan's cyanide cylinder was in his hand. At the corner of the }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex95 
Hawkinsite's wide mouth, where the hose had once been affixed, a droplet }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1\charscalex95 of colorless liquid oozed sluggishly from a break in the rough skin, and slowly }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1\charscalex95 solid
ified into a brown jellylike globule, as it oxidized.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 Drake yanked at the hose and the cylinder jerked free. He plunged home }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex92 the knob that controlled the needle valve at the head of the cylinder and the }{
\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex92 small hissing ceased.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 "I doubt," said Drake, "that enough will have escaped to endanger us. I }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 hope, however, that you realize what will happen to you }{\i\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 now, }{
\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 if you do not }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex92 answer the questions I am going to ask you\emdash and answer them in such }{\i\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex92 a }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex92 way }{
\cf1\charscalex92 that I am convinced you are being truthful."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 "Give me back my cylinder," said the Hawkinsite, slowly, "If not, it will }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex92 be necessary for me to attack you and then it will be necessary for you to kill me."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex92 Drake stepped back. "Not at all. Attack me and I shoot your legs from }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex92 under you. You will lose them; all four, if necessary, but you will still live, in }{\cf1\charscalex92 
a horrible way. You will live to die of cyanide lack. It would be a most }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 uncomfortable death. I am only an Earthman and I can't appreciate its true horrors, but you can, can't you?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex92 The Hawkinsite's mouth was open and something within quivered yellow-}{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 green. Rose wanted to throw up. She wanted to scream. }{\i\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 Give him bock the }
{\i\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex92 cylinder, Drake! }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex92 But nothing would come. She couldn't even turn her head.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex92 Drake said, "You have about an hour, I think, before the effects are }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex92 irreversible. Talk quickly, Dr. Tholan, and you will have your cylinder back."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex92 "And after that\emdash " said the Hawkinsite.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex92 "After that, what does it matter to you? Even if I kill you then, it will be a }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 clean death; not cyanide lack."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex92 Something seemed to pass out of the Hawkinsite. His voice grew guttural }{\cf1\charscalex92 and his words blurred as though he no longer had the energy to keep his }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 
English perfect. He said, "What are your questions?" and as he spoke, his }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 eyes followed the cylinder in Drake's hand.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex92 Drake swung it deliberately, tantalizingly, and the creature's eyes followed }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1\charscalex92 \emdash followed\emdash }{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex92 Drake said, "What are your theories concerning the Inhibition Death? Why did you really come to Earth? What is your interest in the Missing }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex92 Persons Bureau?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex92 Rose found herself waiting in breathless anxiety. These were the questions }{\cf1\charscalex92 she would like to have asked, too. Not in this manner, perhaps, but in }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 
Drake's job, kindness and humanity had to take second place to necessity.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex92 She repeated that to herself several times in an effort to counteract the fact that she found herself loathing Drake for what he was doing to Dr. }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex92 Tholan.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 The Hawkinsite said, "The proper answer would take more than the hour }{\cf1\charscalex92 I have left me. You have bitterly shamed me by forcing me to talk under }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 duress. On my own 
planet, you could not have done so under any circum\-}{\cf1\charscalex92 stances. It is only here, on this revolting planet, that I can be deprived of }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex92 cyanide."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "You are wasting your hour, Dr. Tholan."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 "I would have told you this eventually, Mr. Smollett. I needed your help. }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 It is why I came here."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 "You are still not answering my questions."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "I will answer them now. For years, in addition to my regular scientific work, I have been privately investigating the cells of my patients suffering }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 
from Inhibition Death. I have been forced to use the utmost secrecy and to work without assistance, since the methods I used to investigate the bodies }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 of my patients were frowned upon by my people. Your society would have }{
\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 similar feelings against human vivisection, for instance. For this reason, I }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 could not present the results I obtained to my fellow physicians until I had verified my theories here on Earth."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "What were your theories?" demanded Drake. The feverishness had re\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 turned to his eyes.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 "It became more and more obvious to me as I proceeded with my studies }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 that the entire direction of research into the Inhibition Death was wrong. }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 
Physically, there was no solution to its mystery. The Inhibition Death is }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 entirely a disease of the mind."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Rose interrupted, "Surely, Dr. Tholan, it isn't psychosomatic."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 A thin, gray translucent film had passed over the Hawkinsite's eyes. He no longer looked at them. He said, "No, Mrs. Smollett, it is not psychoso\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 
matic. It is a true disease of the mind; a mental infection. My patients had }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 double minds. Beyond and beneath the one that obviously belonged to }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 them, there was evidence of }{\i\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 
another }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 one\emdash an }{\i\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 alien }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 mind. I worked with }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Inhibition Death patients of other races than my own, and the same could }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 
be found. In short, there are not five intelligences in the Galaxy, but six. }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 And the sixth is parasitic."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-12\cf1 Rose said, "This is wild\emdash impossible! You }{\i\expnd-2\expndtw-12\cf1 must }{\expnd-2\expndtw-12\cf1 be mistaken, Dr. Tholan."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "I am not mistaken. Until I came to Earth, I thought I might be. But my }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 stay at the Institute and my researches at the Missing Persons Bureau con\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1 
vinced me that is not so. What is so impossible about the concept of a }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 parasitic intelligence? Intelligences like these would not leave fossil remains, }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 nor even leave artifacts\emdash 
if their only function is to derive nourishment }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 somehow from the mental activities of other creatures. One can imagine }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 such a parasite, through the course of millions of years, perhaps, losing all }{
\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 portions of its physical being but that which remains necessary, just as a }{\expnd-2\expndtw-12\cf1 tapeworm, among your Earthly physical parasites, eventually lost all its func\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
tions but the single one of reproduction. In the case of the parasitic intelli\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 gence, all physical attributes would eventually be lost. It would become }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 
nothing but pure mind, living in some mental fashion we cannot conceive of }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 on the minds of others. Particularly on the minds of Earthmen."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 Rose said, "Why particularly Earthmen?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 Drake simply stood apart, intent, asking no further questions. He was }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 content, apparently, to let the Hawkinsite speak.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "Have you not surmised that the sixth intelligence is a native of Earth? }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Mankind from the beginning has lived with it, has adapted to it, is uncon\-}{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 
scious of it. It is why the higher species of terrestrial animals, including man, }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 do not grow after maturity and, eventually, die what is called natural death. }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
It is the result of this universal parasitic infestation. It is why you sleep and }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 dream, since it is then that the parasitic mind must feed and then that you }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 
are a little more conscious of it, perhaps. It is why the terrestrial mind alone of the intelligences is so subject to instability. Where else in the Galaxy are found split personalities and other such manifestations? After all, even now }{
\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 there must be occasional human minds which are visibly harmed by the }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 presence of the parasite.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-12\cf1 "Somehow, these parasitic minds could traverse space. They had no phys\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 ical limitations. They could drift between the stars in what would corre\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 
spond to a state of hibernation. Why the first ones did it, I don't know; }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 probably no one will ever know. But once those first discovered the presence }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 
of intelligence on other planets in the Galaxy, there was a small, steady }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 stream of parasitic intelligences making their way through space. We of the }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 outer worlds must have been a
 gourmet's dish for them or they would have }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 never struggled so hard to get to us. I imagine many must have failed to make the trip, but it must have been worth the effort to those who suc\-}{\expnd-3\expndtw-15\cf1 ceeded.}{

\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 "But you see, we of the other worlds had not lived with these parasites for }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 millions of years, as man and his ancestors had. We had not adapted our\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 
selves to it. Our weak strains had not been killed off gradually through }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1 hundreds of generations until only the resistants were left. So, where }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Earthmen could survive t
he infection for decades with little harm, we others }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 die a quick death within a year."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 "And is that why the incidence has increased since interstellar travel }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 between Earth and the other planets has begun?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 "Yes." For a moment there was silence, and then the Hawkinsite said }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 with a sudden access of energy, "Give me back my cylinder. You have your }{\expnd-3\expndtw-15\cf1 answer."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Drake said, coolly, "What about the Missing Persons Bureau?" He was }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 swinging the cylinder again; but now the Hawkinsite did not follow its }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 movements. The gr
ay translucent film on his eyes had deepened and Rose }{\expnd-2\expndtw-12\cf1 wondered whether that was simply an expression of weariness or an example }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 of the changes induced by cyanide lack.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 The Hawkinsite said, "As we are not well adapted to the intelligence that }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1 infests man, neither is it well adapted to us. It can live on us\emdash it even }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 prefers to, apparently
\emdash but it cannot reproduce with ourselves alone as the }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 source of its life. The Inhibition Death is therefore not directly contagious }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 among our people."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 Rose looked at him with growing horror. "What are you implying, Dr. }{\expnd-2\expndtw-12\cf1 Tholan?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 "The Earthman remains the prime host for the parasite. An Earthman may infect one of us if he remains among us. But the parasite, once it is }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 located in an intelligence of the outer worlds, must somehow re
turn to an }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 Earthman, if it expects to reproduce. Before interstellar travel, this was }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 possible only by a re-passage of space and therefore the incidence of infec\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 
tion remained infinitesimal. Now we are infected and reinfected as the }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 parasites return to Earth and come back to us via the mind of Earthmen }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 who travel through space."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 Rose said faintly, "And the missing persons\emdash "}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "Are the intermediate hosts. The exact process by which it is done, I, of }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 course, do not know. The masculine terrestrial mind seems better suited for }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
their purposes. You'll remember that at the Institute I was told that the life }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 expectancy of the average human male is three years less than that of the }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 
average female. Once reproduction has been taken care of, the infested male }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 leaves, by spaceship, for the outer worlds. He disappears."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "But this is impossible," insisted Rose. "What you say implies that the parasite mind can control the actions of its host! This cannot be, or we of }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Earth would have noticed their presence."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "The control, Mrs. Smollett, may be very subtle, and may, moreover, be }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 exerted only during the period of active reproduction. I simply point to your }{\expnd-2\expndtw-12\cf1 
Missing Persons Bureau. Why do the young men disappear? You have eco\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 nomic and psychological explanations, but they are not sufficient. \emdash But I }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
am quite ill now and cannot speak much longer. I have only this to say. In }{\cf1 the mental parasite, your people and mine have a common enemy. }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 
Earthmen, too, need not die involuntarily, except for its presence. I thought that if I found myself unable to return to my own world with my informa\-tion because of the unorthodox methods I used to obtain it, I might bring it }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
to the authorities on Earth, and ask their help in stamping out this menace. }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Imagine my pleasure when I found that the husband of one of the biologists }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
at the Institute was a member of one of Earth's most important investigat\-ing bodies. Naturally, I did what I could to be made a guest at his home in }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 order that I might deal with him privately; convince him of the terrible }{
\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 truth; utilize his position to help in the attack on the parasites.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1 "This is, of course, now impossible. I cannot blame you too far. As }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 Earthmen, you cannot be expected to understand the psychology of my }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 people. Ne
vertheless, you must understand this. I can have no further deal\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1 ing with either of you. I could not even bear to remain any longer on }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 Earth."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 Drake said, "Then you alone, of all your people, have any knowledge of this theory of yours."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "I atone."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Drake held out the cylinder. "Your cyanide, Dr. Tholan."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 The Hawkinsite groped for it eagerly. His supple fingers manipulated the }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 hose and the needle valve with the utmost delicacy. In the space of ten}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 seconds, he had it in place and was inhaling the gas in huge breaths. His }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 eyes were growing clear and transparent.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 Drake waited until the Hawkinsite breathings had subsided to normal, }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 and then, without expression, he raised his needle-gun and fired. Rose }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 
screamed. The Hawkinsite remained standing. His four lower limbs were }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 incapable of buckling, but his head lolled and from his suddenly flaccid }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 
mouth, the cyanide hose fell, disregarded. Once again, Drake closed the }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 needle valve and now he tossed the cylinder aside and stood there somberly, }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 looking at the dead 
creature. There was no external mark to show that he }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 had been killed. The needle-gun's pellet, thinner than the needle which }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 gave the gun its name, entered the body noiselessly and easily, and exploded }{
\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 with devastating effect only within the abdominal cavity.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 Rose ran from the room, still screaming. Drake pursued her, seized her }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 arm. She heard the hard, flat sounds of his palm against her face without }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
feeling them and subsided into little bubbling sobs.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Drake said, "I told you to have nothing to do with this. Now what do you }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 think you'll do?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 She said, "Let me go. I want to leave. I want to go away."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 "Because of something it was my job to do? You heard what the creature }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 was saying. Do you suppose I could allow him to return to his world and }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 spread those lies
? They would believe him. And what do you think would }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 happen then? Can you imagine what an interstellar war might be like? They }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 would imagine they would have to kill us all to stop the disease."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 With an effort that seemed to turn her inside out, Rose steadied. She }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 looked firmly into Drake's eyes and said, "What Dr. Tholan said were no }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 lies and no mistakes, Drake,"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "Oh, come now, you're hysterical. You need sleep."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "I know what he said is so because the Security Commission knows all }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 about that same theory, and knows it to be true."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "Why do you say such a preposterous thing?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "Because you yourself let that slip twice."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 Drake said, "Sit down." She did so, and he stood there, looking curiously }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 at her. "So I have given myself away twice, have I? You've had a busy
 day of detection, my dear. You have facets you keep well hidden." He sat down and }{\expnd-2\expndtw-12\cf1 crossed his legs.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 Rose thought, yes, she had had a busy day. She could see the electric }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 clock on the kitchen wall from where she sat; it was more than two hours }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 past midnigh
t. Harg Tholan had entered their house thirty-five hours before }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 and now he lay murdered in the spare bedroom.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 Drake said, "Well, aren't you going to tell me where I pulled my two }{\expnd-3\expndtw-15\cf1 boners?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1 "You turned white when Harg Tholan referred to me as a charming }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 hostess. Hostess has a double meaning, you know, Drake. A host is one who }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 harbors a parasite."}{
\par }{\cf1\super\charscalex90 ?}{\cf1\charscalex90    "Number one," said Drake. "What's number two?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 "That's something you did before Harg Tholan entered the house. I've }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 been trying to remember it for hours. Do }{\i\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 you }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 
remember, Drake? You spoke }{\cf1\charscalex90 about how unpleasant it was for Hawkinsites to associate with Earthmen, }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 and I said Harg Tholan was a doctor and had to. I asked you if you thought }{\cf1\charscalex90 
that human doctors particularly enjoyed going to the tropics, or letting }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 infected mosquitoes bite them. Do you remember how upset you became?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 Drake laughed. "I had no idea I was so transparent. Mosquitoes are hosts }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex90 for the malaria and yellow fever parasites." He sighed. "I've done my best to }{
\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 keep you out of this. I tried to keep the Hawkinsite away. I tried threatening }{\cf1\charscalex90 you. Now there's nothing left but to tell you the truth. I must, because only the truth\emdash or death\emdash 
will keep you quiet. And I don't want to kill you."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 She shrank back in her chair, eyes wide.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 Drake said, "The Commission knows the truth. It does us no good. We can only do all in our power to prevent the other worlds from finding out."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 "But the truth can't be held down forever! Harg Tholan found out. }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex90 You've killed him, but another extraterrestrial will repeat the same discovery }{\cf1\charscalex90 \emdash 
over and over again. You can't kill them all."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 "We know that, too," agreed Drake. "We have no choice."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 "Why?" cried Rose. "Harg Tholan gave you the solution. He made no }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex90 suggestions or threats of war between worlds. He suggested that we combine }{\cf1\charscalex90 with 
the other intelligences and help to wipe out the parasite. And we can! If we, in common with all the others, put every scrap of effort into it\emdash "}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 "You mean we can trust him? Does he speak for his government or for the other races?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 "Can we dare to refuse the risk?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 Drake said, "You don't understand." He reached toward her and took one }{\cf1\charscalex90 of her cold, unresisting hands between both of his. He went on, "I may }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 
seem silly trying to teach you anything about your specialty, but I want you }{\cf1\charscalex90 to hear me out. Harg Tholan was right. Man and his prehistoric ancestors }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex90 
have been living with this parasitic intelligence for uncounted ages; certainly }{\cf1\charscalex90 for a much longer period than we have been truly }{\i\cf1\charscalex90 Homo sapiens. }{\cf1\charscalex90 In that }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex90 
interval, we have not only become adapted to it, we have become dependent }{\cf1\charscalex90 upon it. It is no longer a case of parasitism. It is a case of mutual coopera\-tion. You biologists have a name for it."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 She tore her hand away. "What are you talking about? Symbiosis?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex90 "Exactly. We have a disease of our own, remember. It is a reverse disease; }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 
one of unrestrained growth. We've mentioned it already as a contrast to the Inhibition Death. Well, what is the cause of cancer? How long have biolo\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex90 
gists, physiologists, biochemists and all the others been working on it? How }{\cf1\charscalex90 much success have they had with it? Why? Can't you answer that for }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex90 yourself now?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 She said, slowly, "No, I can't. What are you talking about?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 "It's all very well to say that if we could remove the parasite, we would}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex89 have eternal growth and life if we wanted it; or at least until we got tired of being too big or of living too long, and did away with ourselves neatly. But }{\cf1\charscalex89 
how many millions of years has it been since the human body has had }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex89 
occasion to grow in such an unrestrained fashion? Can it do so any longer? Is the chemistry of the body adjusted to that? Has it got the proper whatch-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1\charscalex89 amacallits?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex89 "Enzymes," Rose supplied in a whisper.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1\charscalex89 "Yes, enzymes. It's impossible for us. If for any reason the parasitic intelli\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex89 gence, as Harg Tholan calls it, does leave the human body, or if its relation\-
ship to the human mind is in any way impaired, growth does take place, but }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex89 not in any orderly fashion. We call the growth cancer. And there you have }{\cf1\charscalex89 
it. There's no way of getting rid of the parasite. We're together for all eternity. To get rid of their inhibition Death, extraterrestrials must first wipe out all vertebrate life on Earth. There is no other solution for them, }{
\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex89 and so we must keep knowledge of it from them. Do you understand?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex89 Her mouth was dry and it was difficult to talk. "I understand, Drake." }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex89 She noticed that his forehead was damp and that there was a line of perspi\-}{\cf1\charscalex89 
ration down each cheek. "And now you'll have to get it out of the apart\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex89 ment."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex89 "It's late at night and I'll be able to get the body out of the building. From there on\emdash " He turned to her. "I don't know when I'll be back."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex89 "I understand, Drake," she said again.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex89 Harg Tholan was heavy. Drake had to drag him through the apartment. }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex89 Rose turned away, retching. She hid her eyes until she heard the front door }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex89 
close. She whispered to herself, "I understand, Drake."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex89 It was 3 }{\scaps\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex89 a.m. }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex89 Nearly an hour had passed since she had heard the front }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex89 
door click gently into place behind Drake and his burden. She didn't know where he was going, what he intended doing\emdash }{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex89 She sat there numbly. There was no desire to sleep; no desire to move. }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex89 She kept her mind traveling in tight circles, away from the thing she knew and which she wanted not to know.}{

\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex89 Parasitic minds! Was it only a coincidence or was it some queer racial }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex89 memory, some tenuous long-sustained wisp of tradition or insight, stretching }{\cf1\charscalex89 
back through incredible millennia, that kept current the odd myth of hu\-man beginnings? She thought to herself, ther
e were two intelligences on Earth to begin with. There were humans in the Garden of Eden and also the serpent, which "was more subtil than any beast of the field." The }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex89 
serpent infected man and, as a result, it lost its limbs. Its physical attributes }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex89 were no longer necessary. And because of the infection, man was driven out }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex89 
of the Garden of eternal life. Death entered the world.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex89 Yet, despite her efforts, the circle of her thoughts expanded and returned }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex89 to Drake. She shoved and it returned; she counted to herself, she recited the}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex87 names of the objects in her field of vision, she cried, "No, no, no," and it returned. It kept returning.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex87 
Drake had lied to her. It had been a plausible story. It would have held good under most circumstances; but Drake was not a biologist. Cancer could not be, as Drake had said, a disease that was an expression of a lost ability for normal growth. Cancer att
acked children while they were still }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex87 growing; it could even attack embryonic tissue. It attacked fish, which, like }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex87 
extraterrestrials, never stopped growing while they lived, and died only by }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex87 disease or accident. It attacked plants which had no minds and could not be }{\cf1\charscalex87 
parasitized. Cancer had nothing to do with the presence or absence of normal growth; it was the general disease of life, to which }{\i\cf1\charscalex87 no }{\cf1\charscalex87 tissue of }{\i\cf1\charscalex87 no }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex87 
multicellular organism was completely immune.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex87 He should not have bothered lying. He should not have allowed some obscure sentimental weakness to persuade him to avoid the necessity of killing her in that manner. She would tell them at the Institute. The para\-site }{
\i\cf1\charscalex87 could }{\cf1\charscalex87 be beaten. Its absence would }{\i\cf1\charscalex87 not }{\cf1\charscalex87 cause cancer. But who would }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex87 believe her?}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex87 She put her hands over her eyes. The young men who disappeared were }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex87 usually in the first year of their marriage. Whatever the process of reproduc\-}{
\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex87 tion of the parasite intelligences, it must involve close association with an\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex87 other parasite\emdash the type of close and continu
ous association that might only be possible if their respective hosts were in equally close relationship. As in }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex87 the case of newly married couples.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex87 She could feel her thoughts slowly disconnect. They would be coming to }{\cf1\charscalex87 her. They would be saying, "Where is Harg Tholan?" And she would an\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex87 
swer, "With my husband." Only they would say, "Where is your husband?" }{\cf1\charscalex87 because he would be gone, too. He needed her no longer. He would never }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex87 
return. They would never find him, because he would be out in space. She }{\cf1\charscalex87 would report them both, Drake Smollett and Harg Tholan, to the Missing }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex87 Persons Bureau.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex87 She wanted to weep, but couldn't; she was dry-eyed and it was painful.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex87 And then she began to giggle and couldn't stop. It was very funny. She had looked for the answers to so many questions and had found them all. }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex87 
She had even found the answer to the question she thought had no bearing on the subject.}{
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex87 She had finally learned why Drake had married her.}{
\par }}