{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\deflang1049{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset204{\*\fname Arial;}Arial CYR;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset204{\*\fname Times New Roman;}Times New Roman CYR;}{\f2\fswiss\fcharset204{\*\fname Arial;}Arial CYR;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\stylesheet{ Normal;}{\s1 heading 1;}{\s2 heading 2;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2508;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa60\sl360\slmult1\qc\lang1058\b\i\f0\fs28 THE CURSE OF THE MONOLITH\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri202\sb230\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2\b0\fs24 Following the events of 'The City of Skulls'" (in the \expndtw3 volume \i0 Conan), \i Conan rises to the rank of captain \expndtw-2 in the Turanian service. His growing repute as an ir\-\expndtw-3 resistible fighter and a good man in a tight spot, how\-ever, instead of leading to soft jobs with large pay for \expndtw1 little work, causes King Yildis's generals to choose \expndtw-3 him for particularly hazardous missions. One of these \expndtw0 takes him thousands of mUes eastwards, to fabled \expndtw1 Khitai.\par
\expndtw-5\i0 The sheer cliffs of dark stone closed about Conan the \expndtw0 Cimmerian like die sides of a trap. He did not like the \expndtw-6 way their jagged peaks loomed against the few faint stars, \expndtw-1 which glittered like the eyes of spiders down upon the \expndtw-4 small camp on the flat floor of the valley. Neither did he like the chill, uneasy wind dial whistled across the stony \expndtw-1 heights and prowled about the campfire. It caused the \expndtw-9 flames to leap and flicker, sending monstrous black shadows \expndtw-6 writhing across the rough stone walls of the nearer valley \expndtw-11 side.\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb58\sl360\slmult1\qj\expndtw-7 On the other side of the camp, colossal redwoods, which \expndtw-6 had been old when Atlantis sank beneath the waves eight thousand years before, rose amid thickets of bamboo and \expndtw-3 clumps of rhododendron. A small stream meandered out \expndtw0 of the woods, murmured past the camp, and wandered \expndtw-6 off into the forest again. Overhead, a layer of haze or high \expndtw-4 fog drifted across the tops of the cliffs, drowning die light \expndtw3 of die fainter stars and making the brighter ones seem to \expndtw-5 weep.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw3 Something about this place, thought Conan, stank of \expndtw4 fear and of death. He could almost smell the acrid odor \expndtw6 of terror on the breeze. The horses felt it, too. They \expndtw1 nickered plaintively, pawed the earth, and rolled white \expndtw-2 eyeballs at the dark beyond the circle of the fire. The beasts \expndtw1 were close to nature. So was Conan, the young barbarian \expndtw0 warrior from the bleak hills of Cimmeria. Like his, their senses were more delicately turned to the aura of evil than \expndtw-2 were die senses of city-bred men like the Turanian troopers he had led into this deserted vale.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 The soldiers sat about the fire, sharing the last of this night's ration of wine from goatskin bags. Some laughed \expndtw3 and boasted of the amorous feats they would do in the \expndtw4 silken bagnios of Aghrapur upon their return. Others, \expndtw1 weary from a long day's hard ride, sat silently, staring at \expndtw0 the fire and yawning. Soon they would settle down for the night, rolled in their heavy cloaks. With their heads pil\-\expndtw-1 lowed on saddlebags, they would he in a loose circle about \expndtw3 the hissing fire, while two of their number stood guard with their powerful Hyrkanian bows strung and ready. \expndtw4 They sensed nothing of the sinister force that hovered \expndtw-2 about the valley.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Standing with his back to the nearest of the giant red\-\expndtw-1 woods, Conan wrapped his cloak more closely about him \expndtw0 against the dank breeze from the heights. Although his \expndtw-1 troopers were well-built men of good size, he towered half \expndtw-2 a head over the tallest of them, while his enormous breadth \expndtw0 of shoulder made them seem puny by comparison. His \expndtw-2 square-cut black mane escaped from below the edges of his \expndtw2 spired, turban-wound helmet, and the deep-set blue eyes \expndtw0 in his dark, scarred face caught glints of red from the fire\-\expndtw-1 light.\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri106\sl360\slmult1\qj\expndtw1 Sunk in one of his fits of melancholy gloom, Conan \expndtw-1 silently cursed King Yildiz, the well-meaning but weak \expndtw0 Turanian monarch who had sent him on this ill-omened \expndtw2 mission. Over a year had passed since he had taken the \expndtw-2 oath of allegiance to the king of Turan. Six months before, \expndtw1 he had been lucky enough to earn this king's favor; with \expndtw-1 the help of a fellow-mercenary,, Juma the Kushite, he had \expndtw2 rescued Yildiz's daughter Zosara from the mad god-king \expndtw0 of Meru. He had brought the princess, more or less intact, \expndtw-1 to her affianced bridegroom, Khan Kujala of the nomadic \expndtw0 Kuigar horde.\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri67\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 When Conan returned to Yildiz's glittering capital of Aghrapur, he had found the monarch generous enough in \expndtw1 his gratitude. Both he and Juma had been raised to cap\-\expndtw3 tain. But, whereas Juma had obtained a coveted post in \expndtw-1 the Royal Guard, Conan had been rewarded with yet an\-\expndtw-2 other arduous, perilous mission. Now, as he recalled these \expndtw3 events, he sourly contemplated the fruits of success.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Yildiz had entrusted the Cimmerian giant with a letter \expndtw-3 tr> King Shu of Kusan, a minor kingdom in western Khitai. \expndtw-2 At the head of forty veterans, Conan had accomplished the \expndtw2 immense journey. He had traversed hundreds of leagues \expndtw-2 of bleak Hyrkanian steppe and skirted the foothills of the \expndtw0 towering Talakma Mountains. He had threaded his way \expndtw-1 through the windy deserts and swampy jungles bordering \expndtw1 the mysterious realm of Khitai, the easternmost land of \expndtw-3 which the men of the West had heard.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Arrived in Kusan at last, Conan had found the vener\-\expndtw0 able and philosophical King Shu a splendid host. While Conan and his warriors were plied with exotic food and \expndtw-1 drink and furnished with willing concubines, the king and \expndtw3 his advisers decided to accept King Yildiz's offer of a \expndtw0 treaty of friendship and trade. So the wise old king had \expndtw3 handed Conan a gorgeous scroll of gilded silk. Thereon \expndtw-2 were inscribed, in the writhing ideographs of Khitai and \expndtw-4 the gracefully slanted characters of Hyrkania, the formal \expndtw-5 replies and felicitations of the Khitan king.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 Besides a silken purse full of Khitan gold, King Shu \expndtw-2 had also furnished Conan with a high noble of his court, \expndtw-4 to guide them as far as the western borders of Khitai. But Conan had not liked this guide, this Duke Feng.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 The Khitan was \i a \i0 slim, dainty, foppish little man with \expndtw-4 a soft, lisping voice. He wore fantastical silken garments, \expndtw-3 unsuited to rugged riding and camping, and drenched his \expndtw-1 exquisite person in heavy perfume. He never soiled his \expndtw-4 soft, long-nailed hands with any of the camp chores, but instead kept his two servants busy day and night minister\-\expndtw-6 ing to his comfort and dignity.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri77\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 Conan looked down upon the Khitan's habits with a \expndtw-4 hard-bitten barbarian's manly contempt. The duke's slant\-\expndtw-3 ing black eyes and purring voice reminded him of a cat, \expndtw-4 and he often told himself to watch this little princeling for \expndtw-6 treachery. On the other hand, he secretly envied the Khitan \expndtw-3 his exquisitely cultivated manners and easy charm. This \expndtw-5 fact led Conan to resent the duke even more; for, although \expndtw-4 his Turanian service had given Conan some slight polish, \expndtw-1 he was still at heart the blunt, boorish young barbarian. \expndtw-3 He would have to be careful of this sly little Duke Feng.\par
\expndtw-2 'Do I disturb the profound meditations of the nobly born \expndtw-5 commander?' purred a soft voice.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri48\sb48\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-4 Conan started and snatched at the hilt of his tulwar be\-\expndtw-3 fore he recognized the person of Duke Feng, wrapped to \expndtw-6 the lip in a voluminous cloak of pea-green velvet. Conan \expndtw-3 started to growl a contemptuous curse. Then, remember\-\expndtw3 ing his ambassadorial duties, he turned the oath into a \expndtw-3 formal welcome that sounded unconvincing even in his \expndtw-9 own ears.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 'Perhaps the princely captain is unable to sleep?' mur\-\expndtw-5 mured Feng, appearing not to notice Conan's ungracious\-\expndtw-3 ness. Feng spoke fluent Hyrkanian. This was one reason \expndtw-5 for his having been dispatched to guide Conan's troop, for \expndtw-7 Conan's command of the singsong Khitan tongue was little \expndtw-5 more than a smattering. Feng continued:\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-5 'This person is so fortunate as to possess a sovereign \expndtw-3 remedy for sleeplessness. A gifted apothecary concocted \expndtw-5 it for me from an ancient recipe: a decoction of lily buds \expndtw-2 ground into cinnamon and spiced with poppy seeds . ..'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-5 'No, nothing,\super 1\nosupersub  growled Conan. 'I thank you, Duke, but it's something about this accursed place. Some uncanny \expndtw-3 premonition keeps me wakeful when, after a long day's \expndtw-7 ride, I should be as weary as a stripling after his first night's bout of love.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-4 The duke's features moved a trifle, as if he winced at \expndtw-7 Conan's crudity - or was it merely a flicker of the firelight? \expndtw-4 In any case, he suavely replied, \lang1049\'d2\lang1058  think I understand the \expndtw-6 misgivings of the excellent commander. Nor are such dis\-quieting emotions unusual in this - ah - this legend-fraught \expndtw-7 valley. Many men have perished here.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-6 'A battlefield, eh ?' grunted Conan.\par
The duke's narrow shoulders twitched beneath the green \expndtw-5 cloak. 'Nay, nothing like that, my heroic Western friend. \expndtw-1 This spot lies near the tomb of an ancient king of my \expndtw-4 people: King Hsia of Kusan. He caused his entire royal \expndtw-1 guard to be beheaded and their heads buried with him, \expndtw-4 that their spirits should continue to serve him in the next \expndtw-5 world. The common superstition, however, avers that the \expndtw-6 ghosts of these guardsmen march in review, up and down \expndtw-4 this valley.' The soft voice dropped even lower. 'Legend \expndtw-6 also states that a magnificent treasure of gold and precious \expndtw3 jewels was buried with him; and this tale I believe to \i be \expndtw4\i0 true.'\par
\expndtw5 Conan pricked up his ears. 'Gold and gems, eh? Has \expndtw-2 it ever been found, this treasure ?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sb48\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw3 The Khitao surveyed Conan for a moment with an \expndtw0 oblique, contemplative gaze. Then, as if having reached \expndtw3 some private decision, he replied, 'No, Lord Conan; for \expndtw-1 the precise location of the trove is not known - save to one \expndtw4 man.'\par
\expndtw0 Conan's interest was quite visible now. 'To whom?\super 1\nosupersub  he demanded bluntly.\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb86\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2 The Khitan smiled. 'To my unworthy self, of course.' \expndtw3 'Crom and Erlik! If you've known where this loot was \expndtw4 hidden, why haven't you dug it up ere now?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri134\sb38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 'My people are haunted by superstitious fears of a curse laid upon the site of the old bang's tomb, which is marked by a monolith of dark stone. Hence I have never been able \expndtw1 to persuade anyone to assist me in seizing the treasure, \expndtw-3 whose hiding place I alone know.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri182\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 'Why couldn't you do it all by yourself?' \expndtw1 Feng spread his small, long-nailed hands. 'I needed a \expndtw-2 trustworthy assistant to guard my back against any stealthy \expndtw1 foe, human or animal, that might approach whilst I was rapt in contemplation of the booty. Moreover., a certain \expndtw-1 amount of digging and lifting and prying will be required. \expndtw-2 A gentleman like me lacks the thews for such crude, physi\-\expndtw-4 cal efforts.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb125\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 'Now barken, gallant sir! This person led the honorable \expndtw1 commander through this valley, not by happenstance but by design. When I heard that the Son of Heaven wished \expndtw2 me to accompany the brave captain westward, I seized \expndtw3 upon the proposal with alacrity. This commission came \expndtw-2 as a veritable gift from the divine officials in Heaven, for \expndtw2 Your Lordship possesses the musculature of three ordin\expndtw-2 ary men. And, being a Western-bom foreigner, you natur\-\expndtw0 ally do not share the superstitious terrors of us of Kusan. \expndtw-1 Am I correct in my assumption?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 Conan grunted. \lang1049\'d2\lang1058  fear neither god, man, nor devil, and least of all the ghost of a long-dead king. Speak on, Lord \expndtw0 Feng.'\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 The duke sidled closer, his voice dropping to a scarcely audible whisper. 'Then, here is my plan. As I have stated, \expndtw-2 this person guided you hither because I thought you might \expndtw1 be he whom I have sought. The task will be tight for one \expndtw-2 of your strength, and my baggage includes tools for ex\-\expndtw2 cavation. Let us go upon the instant, and within an hour \expndtw0 we shall be richer than either of us has dreamed!'\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw3 Feng's seductive, purring whisper awoke the lust for \expndtw0 loot in Conan's barbaric heart, but a residue of caution \expndtw-1 restrained the Cimmerian from immediate assent.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 'Why not rouse a squad of my troopers to aid us?' he \expndtw-4 grumbled. 'Or your servants ? Surely we shah\super 1\nosupersub  need help in \expndtw-1 bringing the plunder back to camp!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 Feng shook his sleek head. 'Not so, honorable ally! The \expndtw2 treasure consists of two small golden caskets of virgin \expndtw-4 gold, each packed with exceedingly rare and precious gems. \expndtw0 We can each carry the fortune of a princedom, and why \expndtw1 share this treasure with others? Since the secret is mine \expndtw0 alone, I am naturally entitled to half. Then, if you are so \expndtw2 lavish as to divide your half amongst your forty warriors \expndtw-2 ... well, that is for you to decide.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 It took no more urging to persuade Conan to Duke \expndtw2 Feng's scheme. The pay of King Yildiz's soldiers was \expndtw-2 meager and usually in arrears. Conan's recompense for his \expndtw0 arduous Turanian service to date had been many empty \expndtw-3 words of honor and precious little hard coin.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 'I go to fetch the digging implements,' murmured Feng. \expndtw0 'We should leave the camp separately, so as not to arouse \expndtw-1 suspicion. Whilst I unpack the utensils, you shall don your \expndtw-2 coat of mail and your arms.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb67\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Conan frowned. 'Why should I need armor, just to dig up a chest?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sb48\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw5 'Oh, excellent sir! There are many dangers in these \expndtw1 hills. Here roam the terrible tiger, the fierce leopard, the \expndtw0 churlish bear, and the irascible wild bull, not to mention \expndtw1 wandering bands of primitive hunters. Since a Khitan gentleman is not trained in the use of arms, your mighty \expndtw-1 self must be prepared to fight for two. Believe me, noble captain, I know whereof I speak!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 'Oh, all right,' grumbled Conan.\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri77\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw3 'Excellent! I knew that so superior a mind as yours \expndtw-2 would see the force of my arguments. And now we part, to \expndtw4 meet again at the foot of the valley at moonrise. That \expndtw-2 should occur about one double hour hence, which will give us ample time for our rendezvous.'\par
\par
\expndtw1 The night grew darker and the wind., colder. All the eery \expndtw2 premonitions of danger, which Conan had experienced \expndtw-2 since first entering this forsaken vale at sundown, returned \expndtw0 in full force. As he walked silently beside the diminutive Khitan, he cast wary glances into the darkness. The steep \expndtw-1 rock walls on either side narrowed until there was hardly room to walk between the cliffside and the banks of the \expndtw1 stream which gurgled out of the valley at their feet.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri96\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Behind them, a glow appeared in the misty sky where \expndtw0 the heads of the cliffs thrust blackly up against the firma\-\expndtw-1 ment. This glow grew stronger and became a pearly opal-escence. The walls of the valley fell away on either hand, \expndtw-2 and the two men found themselves treading a grassy sward \expndtw5 that spread out on both sides. The stream angled off to \expndtw-1 the right and, gurgling, curved out of sight between banks \expndtw-2 clustered with ferns.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri77\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 As they issued from the valley, the half moon rose over \expndtw0 the cliffs behind them. In the misty air, it looked as if the \expndtw-2 viewer were seeing it from under water. The wan, illusive light of this moon shone upon a small, rounded hill, which \expndtw-1 rose out of the sward directly before them. Beyond it, \expndtw1 steep-sided, forest-crested mils stood up blackly in the \expndtw-3 watery moonlight.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri48\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 As the moon cast a powdering of silver over the hill be\-\expndtw1 fore them, Conan forgot his premonitions. For here rose \expndtw-1 the monolith of which Feng had spoken. It was a smooth, \expndtw1 dully glistening shaft of dark stone, which rose from the top of the hill and soared up until it pierced the layer of \expndtw-1 mist that overhung the land. The top of the shaft appeared \expndtw-5 as a mere blur.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Here, then, was the tomb of the long-dead King Hsia, \expndtw2 just as Feng had foretold. The treasure must be buried \expndtw-1 either directly beneath it or to one side. They would soon \expndtw-5 find out which.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 With Feng's crowbar and shovel on his shoulder, Conan pushed forcefully through a clump of tough, elastic rhodo\-\expndtw-1 dendron bushes and started up the hill. He paused to give \expndtw2 his small companion a hand up. After a brief scramble, \expndtw-4 they gained the top of the slope.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 Before them, the shaft rose from the center of the gentiy \expndtw3 convex surface of the hilltop. The hill, thought Conan, \expndtw-3 was probably an artificial mound, such as were sometimes \expndtw-1 piled up over the remains of great chiefs in his own coun\-\expndtw2 try. If the treasure were at the bottom of such a pile, it \expndtw5 would take more than one night's digging to uncover \expndtw18 it...\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 With a startled oath, Conan clutched at his shovel and \expndtw1 crowbar. Some invisible force had seized upon them and \expndtw2 pulled them toward the shaft. He leaned away from the \expndtw1 shaft, his powerful muscles bulging under his mail shirt. \expndtw0 Inch by inch, however, the force dragged him toward die \expndtw3 monolith. When he saw that he would be drawn against \expndtw1 the shaft willy-nilly, he let go of the tools, which flew to \expndtw-2 the stone. They struck it with a loud double clank and stuck \expndtw-3 fast to it.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri48\sb58\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 But releasing the tools did not free Conan from the \expndtw-1 attraction of the monument, which now pulled on his mail \expndtw1 shirt as powerfully as it had on die shovel and the crow\-\expndtw0 bar. Staggering and cursing, Conan was slammed against the monolith with crushing force- His back was pinned to \expndtw2 the shaft, as were his upper arms where die short sleeves \expndtw0 of the mail shirt covered them. So was his head inside die spired Turanian helmet, and so was the scabbarded sword \expndtw-3 at his waist.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri106\sb58\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Conan struggled to tear himself free but found diat he \expndtw2 could not. It was as if unseen chains bound him securely \expndtw-2 to the column of dark stone.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri125\sb67\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw3 'What devil's trick is this, you treacherous dog?' he \expndtw-1 ground out.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri144\sb58\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Smiling and imperturbable, Feng strolled up to where \expndtw2 Conan stood pinned against the pillar. Seemingly im\-\expndtw0 pervious to die mysterious force, the Khitan took a silken \expndtw-2 scarf from one of the baggy sleeves of his silken coat. He \expndtw0 waited until Conan opened his mouth to bellow for help, \expndtw2 then adroitly jammed a bunch of the silk into Conan's \expndtw0 mouth. While Conan gagged and chewed on the cloth, the little man knotted the scarf securely around Conan's head. \expndtw-3 At last Conan stood, panting but silent, glaring venomously \expndtw0 down into the courteous smile of the little duke.\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 'Forgive die rase, \lang1049\'ce\lang1058  noble savage!' lisped Feng. 'It was \expndtw6 needful that diis person concoct some tale to appeal to \expndtw1 your primitive lust for gold, in order to allure you hither \expndtw-1 alone.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 Conan's eyes blazed with volcanic fury as he hurled all \expndtw-2 die might of his powerful body against die invisible bonds \expndtw6 that held him against die monolith. It did no good; he \expndtw3 was helpless. Sweat trickled down his brow and soaked \expndtw2 the cotton haqueton beneadi his mail. He tried to shout, \expndtw-2 but only grunts and gurgles came forth.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Since, my dear captain, your life approaches its pre\-\expndtw4 destined end,' continued Feng, 'it would be impolite of me not to explain rny actions, so that your lowly spirit \expndtw1 may journey to whatever hell the gods of die barbarians \expndtw4 have prepared for it in full knowledge of the causes of \expndtw2 your downfall. Know that the court of his amiable but foolish highness, the king of Kusan, is divided between \expndtw-1 two parties. One of these, that of the White Peacock, wel\-\expndtw0 comes contact with the barbarians of the West. The odier, \expndtw2 that of the Golden Pheasant, abominates all association \expndtw-2 with those animals; and I, of course, am one of the selfless \expndtw2 patriots of the Golden Pheasant. Willingly would I give \expndtw-1 my life to bring your so-called embassy to destruction, lest contact with your barbarous masters contaminate our pure \expndtw4 culture and upset our divinely ordained social system.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 'Happily, such an extreme measure seems unnecessary. \expndtw2 For I have you, the leader of his band of foreign devils, \expndtw1 and there around your neck hangs the treaty the Son of \expndtw2 Heaven signed with your uncoudi heathen king.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw5 The little duke pulled out from under Conan's mail \expndtw3 shirt the ivory tube containing the documents. He un\-\expndtw5 clasped the chain that secured it around Conan's neck \expndtw0 and tucked it into one of his voluminous sleeves, adding \expndtw-1 with a malicious smile, 'As for the force that holds you \expndtw1 prisoner, I will not attempt to explain its subde nature to your childish wits. Suffice it to explain diat the substance \expndtw0 whereof this monolith was hewn has the curious property of attracting iron and steel with irresistible force. So fear \expndtw2 not; it is no unholy magic that holds you captive.\super 1\cf0\expndtw0\nosupersub\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Conan was little heartened by this news. He had once \expndtw-1 seen a conjuror in Aghrapur pick up nails with a piece of \expndtw2 dark-red stone and supposed that the force that held him \expndtw-2 was of the same sort. But, since he \i had \i0 never heard of \expndtw-1 magnetism, it was ail equally magic as far as he was con\-\expndtw-2 cerned.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri48\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 'Lest you entertain false hopes of rescue by your men,' \expndtw0 Feng went on, 'I have thought of that, also. In these hi!ls \expndtw2 dwell the Jagas, a primitive headhunting tribe. Attracted \expndtw1 by your campfire, they will assemble at the ends of die valley and rush your camp at dawn. It is dieir invariable \expndtw-2 procedure.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri86\sb38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 'By that time I shall, I hope, be far away. If they cap\-ture me, too - well, a man must die some time, and I trust \expndtw3 I shall do so with the dignity and decorum befitting one \expndtw-1 of my rank and culture. My head would make a delightful ornament in a Jaga hut, I am sure.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri106\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 'And so, my good barbarian, farewell. You will forgive \expndtw5 this person for turning his back upon you during your \expndtw0 last moments. For your demise is a pity in a way, and I \expndtw1 should not enjoy witnessing it. Had you had the advan\-\expndtw-1 tages of a Khitan upbringing, you would have made an \expndtw0 admirable servant - say, a bodyguard for me. But things \expndtw1 areas they are.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 After a mocking bow of farewell, the Khitan withdrew \expndtw-3 to the lower slope of the hill. Conan wondered if the Duke's \expndtw0 plan was to leave him trapped against the shaft until he \expndtw-1 perished of starvation and thirst. If his men marked his absence before dawn, they might look for him. But then, \expndtw0 since he had stolen out of the camp without leaving word of his going, they would not know whetner to be alarmed \expndtw1 by his absence. If he could only get word to them, they \expndtw0 would scour the countryside for him and make short work \expndtw1 of the treacherous little duke. But how to get word?\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Again he threw his massive strength against the force \expndtw0 that held him crushed against the column, but to no avail. He could move his lower legs and arms and even turn his \expndtw-1 head somewhat from side to side. But his body was firmly \expndtw4 gripped by the iron mail that clothed it.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 Now the moon brightened. Conan observed that, about \expndtw0 his feet and elsewhere around the base of the monument, \expndtw2 grisly remains of other victims were scattered. Human \expndtw3 bones and teeth were heaped like old rubbish; he must \expndtw-1 have trodden upon them when the mysterious force pulled \expndtw-2 him up against the shaft.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 In the stronger light, Conan was disquieted to see that \expndtw-1 these remains were peculiarly discolored. A closer look \expndtw2 showed that the bones seemed to have been eaten away \expndtw-4 here and diere, as if some corrosive fluid had dissolved their \expndtw0 smooth surfaces to expose the spongy structure beneath.\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw4 He turned his head from side to side, seeking some \expndtw-2 means of escape. The words of the smooth-tongued Khitan seemed to be true, but now he could discern pieces of iron \expndtw0 held against the curiously stained and discolored stone of \expndtw2 the column by the invisible force. To his left he sighted \expndtw0 the shovel, the crowbar, and the rusty bowl of a helmet, \expndtw3 while on the other side a time-eaten dagger was stuck \expndtw2 against the stone. Yet once more he hurled his strength \expndtw1 against this impalpable force...\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 From below sounded an eery piping sound - a mocking, \expndtw0 maddening tune. Straining his eyes through the fickle \expndtw3 moonlight, Conan saw that Feng had not left the scene \expndtw0 after all. Instead, the duke was sitting on the grass on the \expndtw-1 side of the hill, near its base. He had drawn a curious flute \expndtw2 from his capacious garments and was playing upon it\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj Through the shrill piping, a faint, squashy sound \expndtw-5 reached Conan's ears. It seemed to come from above. The \expndtw-3 muscles of Conan's bullneck stood out as he twisted his \expndtw-4 head to look upward; the spired Turanian helmet grated \expndtw0 against the stone as he moved. Then the blood froze in \expndtw-7 his veins.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sb38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 The mist that had obscured the top of die pylon was \expndtw-3 gone. The rising half moon shone on and through an \expndtw-6 amorphous thing, which squatted obscenely on the summit of the column. It was like a huge lump of quivering, semi-\expndtw-2 translucent jelly - and it lived. Life - throbbing, bloated \expndtw-5 life - pulsed within it. The moonlight glistened'wetly upon \expndtw-7 it as it beat like a huge, living heart.\par
\expndtw-6 As Conan, frozen with horror, watched, the dweller on the \expndtw-7 top of die monolith sent a trickle of jelly groping down the \expndtw-4 shaft toward him. The slippery pseudopod slithered over the smooth surface of the stone. Conan began to under\-\expndtw-2 stand the source of the stains that discolored the face of \expndtw-6 the monolith.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri134\sb38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-7 The wind had changed, and a vagrant down-draft wafted \expndtw-5 a sickening stench to Conan's nostrils, Now he knew why \expndtw-4 the bones at the base of the shaft bore that oddly eaten \expndtw1 appearance. With a dread that almost unmanned him, \expndtw-5 he understood that the jellylike thing exuded a digestive fluid, by means of which it consumed its prey. He won\-\expndtw-6 dered how many men, in ages past\sub ;\nosupersub  had stood in his place, \expndtw-2 bound helplessly to the pillar and awaiting the searing \expndtw-3 caress of the abomination now descending toward him.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sb38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-4 Perhaps Feng's weird piping summoned it, or perhaps \expndtw-3 the odor of living flesh called it to feast. Whatever the \expndtw-6 cause, it had begun a slow, inching progress down the side of the shaft toward his face. The wet jelly sucked and slob\-\expndtw-7 bered as it slithered slowly toward him.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-7 Despair gave new strength to his cramped, tired muscles. \expndtw-6 He threw himself from side to side, striving with every last \expndtw-5 ounce of strength to break the grip of the mysterious force. \expndtw-4 To his surprise, he found that, in one of his lunges, he slid \expndtw-6 to one side, partway around the column.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3 So the grip that held him did not forbid all movement! This gave him food for thought, though he knew diat he \expndtw-2 could not long thus elude the monster of living jelly.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-5 Something prodded his mailed side. Looking down, he \expndtw-4 saw the rust-eaten dagger he had glimpsed before. His \expndtw-5 movement sideways had brought the hilt of the weapon \expndtw-7 against his ribs.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 His upper arm was still clamped against the stone by \expndtw-5 the sleeve of his mail shirt, but his forearm and hand were \expndtw-1 free. Could he bend his arm far enough to clasp the haft \expndtw-8 of the dagger?\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-4 He strained, inching his hand along the stone. The mail \expndtw-5 of his arm scraped slowly over the surface; sweat trickled \expndtw-3 into his eyes. Bit by bit, his straining arm moved toward \expndtw-5 the handle of the dagger. The taunting tune of Feng's flute \expndtw-1 sang maddeningly in his ears, while the ungodly stench \expndtw-7 of the slime-thing filled his nostrils.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-4 His hand touched the dagger, and in an instant he held the hilt fast. But, as he strained it away from the shaft, the \expndtw-5 rust-eaten blade broke with a sharp \i ping. \i0 Rolling his eyes downward, he saw that about two thirds of the blade, from \expndtw-6 the tapering point back, had broken off and lay flat against \expndtw-5 the stone. The remaining third still projected from the hilt. \expndtw-2 Since there was now less iron in the dagger for the shaft \expndtw-4 to attract, Conan was able, by a muscle-bulging effort, to \expndtw-2 tear the stump of the weapon away from the shaft.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 A glance showed him that, although most of the blade \expndtw0 was lost to him, the stump still had a couple of apparently \expndtw2 sharp edges. With his muscles quivering from die effort \expndtw-1 of holding the implement away from the stone, he brought \expndtw-3 one of these edges up against the leathern thong that bound \expndtw2 the two halves of the mail shirt together. Carefully, he began to saw the tough rawhide with the rusty blade.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri48\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 Every movement was agony. The torment of suspense \expndtw0 grew unbearable. His hand, bent into an uncomfortable, \expndtw-1 twisted position, ached and grew numb. The ancient blade was notched, thin, and brittle; a hasty motion might break \expndtw0 it, leaving him helpless. Stroke after stroke he sawed up \expndtw-1 and down, with exquisite caution. The scench of the crea\-ture grew stronger and the sucking sounds of its progress, \expndtw-2 louder.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri115\sb67\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2 Then Conan felt the thong snap. The next instant, he \expndtw0 hurled his full strength against the magnetic force that \expndtw1 imprisoned him. The thong unraveled through the loop\-\expndtw2 holes in the mail shirt, until one whole side of the shirt \expndtw-1 was open. His shoulder and half an arm came out through \expndtw-3 the opening.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri163\sb58\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Then he felt a light blow on the head. The stench be\-\expndtw-1 came overpowering, and his unseen assailant from above pushed this way and that against his helmet. Conan knew \expndtw0 that a jellylike tendril had reached his helmet and was \expndtw-2 groping over its surface, seeking flesh. Any instant, the \expndtw0 corrosive stuff would seep down over his face ., .\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri67\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 Frantically, he pulled his arm out of the sleeve of the \expndtw0 unlaced side of the mail shirt. With his free hand, he un- I \expndtw-1 buckled his sword belt and the chin strap of his helmet. \expndtw-2 Then he tore himself loose altogetber from the deadly \expndtw-3 constriction of the mail, leaving his tulwar and his armor \expndtw-2 flattened against the stone.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri77\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw3 He staggered free of the column and stood for an in-\expndtw6 3\'b0 \expndtw2 stant on trembling legs. The moonlit world swam before \expndtw-7 his eyes.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri67\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 Glancing back, he saw that the jelly-beast had now en\-\expndtw-3 gulfed his helmet. Baffled in its quest for flesh, it was send\-\expndtw0 ing more pseudopods down and outward, wavering and \expndtw-3 questing in the watery light.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri58\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Down the slope, the demoniac piping continued. Feng \expndtw-1 sat cross-legged on the grass of the slope, tweedling away \expndtw0 on his flute as if absorbed in some inhuman ecstasy.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 Conan ripped off and threw away the gag. He pounced \expndtw2 like a striking leopard. He came down, clutching hands \expndtw0 first, upon the little duke; the pair rolled down the rest of \expndtw3 the slope in a tangle of silken robe and thrashing limbs. \expndtw0 A blow to the side of the head subdued Feng's struggles. Conan groped into the Khitan's wide sleeves and tore out \expndtw-2 the ivory cylinder containing the documents.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2 Then Conan lurched back up the hill, dragging Feng \expndtw-1 after him. As he reached the level section around the base \expndtw-2 of the monolith, he heaved Feng into the air over his head. \expndtw0 Seeing what was happening to him, the duke uttered one \expndtw2 high, thin scream as Conan hurled him at the shaft. The \expndtw-2 Khitan struck the column with a thud and slid unconscious \expndtw-3 to the ground at its base.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 The blow was merciful, for the duke never felt the slimy \expndtw-3 touch of the haunter of the monolith as the glassy tentacles \expndtw-1 reached his face. For a moment, Conan grimly watched. Feng's features blurred as the rippling jelly slid over them. Then the flesh faded away, and the skull and teeth showed \expndtw2 through in a ghastly grin. The abomination flushed pink \expndtw-7 as it fed.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb48\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 Conan strode back to camp on stiff legs. Behind him, like \expndtw-4 a giant's torch., the monolith stood against die \i sky, \i0 wrapped in smoky, scarlet flames.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sb48\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw4 It had been the work of moments only to strike firt \expndtw1 into dry tinder with his flint and steel. He had watched \expndtw-1 with grim satisfaction as the oily surface of the slime-\expndtw0 monster ignited and blazed as it squirmed in voiceless agony. Let them both bum, he thought; the half-digesteJ corpse of that treacherous dog and his loathsome pet!\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri67\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 As Conan neared the camp, he saw that the last of his \expndtw-2 warriors had not yet retired. Instead, several stood staring \expndtw1 curiously at the distant firelight. As he appeared, they \expndtw-2 turned upon him, crying out: 'Where have you been, Cap\-\expndtw3 tain? What is that blaze? Where is the duke?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 'Ho, you gaping oafs!' he roared as he strode into the firelight. 'Wake the boys and saddle up to run for it. \i The \expndtw-1\i0 Jaga headhunters caught us, and they'll be here any time, \expndtw0 They got the duke, but I broke free. Khusro! Mulai! Hop \expndtw-2 to it, if you do not want your heads hung up in their devil-\expndtw1 devil huts! And I hope to Crom you've left me some of \expndtw3 that wine!'\par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa60\sl360\slmult1\qc\cf0\expndtw0\b\i\fs28 THE BLOODSTAINED GOD\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri192\sb240\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\b0\fs24 Conan continues his service as a soldier of Turan for \expndtw-4 a total period of about two years, traveling widely and \expndtw-2 learning the elements of organized warfare. As usual, \expndtw-1 trouble is his bedfellow. After one of his more unruly episodes - said to have involved the mistress of the commander of the cavalry division in which he was \expndtw-2 serving \emdash  Conan finds it expedient to desert from the Turanian army. Rumors of treasure send him seeking \expndtw0 for loot in the Kezankian Mountains, along the east-\expndtw-2 em borders of Zamora.\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb250\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 It was dark as the Pit in that stinking alley down which \expndtw2 Conan of Cimmeria groped on a quest as blind as the \expndtw0 darkness around him. Had there been anyone to witness, \expndtw-2 they would have seen a tall and enormously powerful man \expndtw2 clad in a flowing Zuagir khilat, over that a mail shirt of \expndtw1 fine steel mesh, and over that a Zuagir cloak of camel's \expndtw-1 hair. His mane of black hair and his broad, somber, youth\-\expndtw1 ful face, bronzed by the desert sun, were hidden by the \expndtw-8 Zuagir kaffia.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 A sharp, pain-edged cry smote his ears.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 Such cries were not uncommon in the twisting alleys of \expndtw3 Arenjun, the City of Thieves, and no cautious or timid \expndtw1 man would think of interfering in an affair that was none \expndtw-1 of his business. But Conan was neither cautious nor timid. \expndtw1 His ever-lively curiosky would not let him pass by a cry \expndtw2 for help; besides, he was searching for certain men, and \expndtw1 the disturbance might be a clue to their whereabouts.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 Obeying his quick barbarian instincts, he turned toward \expndtw-5 a beam of light that lanced the darkness close at hand. An \expndtw-4 instant later he peered through a crack in the close-drawn \expndtw-7 shutters of a window in a thick stone wall.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-6 He was looking into a spacious room hung widi velvet \expndtw-5 tapestries and littered with cosdy rugs and couches. About \expndtw-7 one of these couches a group of men clustered - six brawny \expndtw-6 Zamorian bravos and two more who eluded identification. On that couch another man was stretched out, a Kezankian \expndtw-5 tribesman naked to die waist. Though he was a powerful \expndtw-4 man, a ruffian as muscular as himself gripped each wrist \expndtw-2 and ankle. Between the four of them they had him \expndtw-4 spread-eagled on the couch, unable to move, though the muscles stood out in quivering knots on his limbs and shoulders. His eyes gleamed redly and his broad chest \expndtw-6 glistened with sweat. As Conaii looked, a supple man in a \expndtw-4 turban of red silk lifted a glowing coal from a smoking brazier with a pair of tongs and poised it over the quiver\-\expndtw-3 ing breast, already scarred from similar torture.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri77\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-4 Another man, taller than the one with die red turban, \expndtw-3 snarled a question Conan could not understand. The \expndtw-4 Kezankian shook his head violently and spat savagely at the questioner. The red-hot coal dropped full on the hairy \expndtw-2 breast, wrenching an inhuman bellow \i Item \i0 the sufferer. \expndtw-4 In that instant Conan launched his full weight against the shutters.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri106\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 The Cimmerian's action was not so impulsive as it \expndtw-7 looked. For his present purposes he needed a friend among the hillmen of the Kezankian range, a people notoriously \expndtw-4 hostile to all strangers. And here was \lang1049\'e7\lang1058  chance to get one. \expndtw-5 The shutters splintered inward with a crash, and he hit the floor inside feet-first, scimitar in one hand and Zuagir \expndtw-6 sword-knife in the other. The torturers whirled and yelped \expndtw-5 in astonishment.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sb58\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 They saw a tall, massive figure clad in the garments of \expndtw-6 a Zuagir, with a fold of his flowing kaffia drawn about his \expndtw-2 face. Over his mask his eyes blazed a volcanic blue. For \expndtw-6 an instant the scene held, frozen, then melted into ferocious \expndtw-8 action.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 The man in the red turban snapped a quick word, and \expndtw-3 a hairy giant lunged to meet the oncoming intruder. The \expndtw-4 Zamorian held a three-foot sword low, and as he charged \expndtw-3 he ripped murderously upward. But the down-lashing scimitar met the rising wrist. The hand, still gripping the \expndtw-4 knife, flew from that wrist in a shower of blood, and the long narrow blade in Conan's left hand sliced through the \expndtw-6 man's throat, choking the grunt of agony.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 Over the crumpling corpse the Cimmerian leaped at \expndtw2 Red Turban and his tall companion. Red Turban drew \expndtw-7 a knife, the tall man a saber.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 'Cut him down, Jfllad!' snarled Red Turban, retreat\-\expndtw-1 ing before the Cimmerian's impetuous onslaught. 'Zal, \expndtw-2 help here!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 The man called Jillad parried Conan's slash and cut \expndtw-1 back. Conan avoided the swipe with a shift that would \expndtw-4 have shamed the leap of a starving panther, and the same \expndtw0 movement brought him within reach of Red Turban's \expndtw-1 knife. The knife shot out; the point struck Conan's side \expndtw-3 but failed to pierce the shut of black ring mail. Red Tur\-\expndtw-5 ban leaped back, so narrowly avoiding Conan's knife that \expndtw-4 the lean blade slit his silken vest and the skin beneath. He tripped over a stool and fell sprawling, but before Conan \expndtw-5 could follow up his advantage, Jillad was pressing him, \expndtw-8 raining blows with his saber.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3 As he parried, the Cimmerian saw that the man called \expndtw-6 Zal was advancing with a heavy poleax, while Red Turban \expndtw-9 was scrambling to his feet.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Conan did not wait to be surrounded. A swipe of his \expndtw-1 scimitar drove Jillad back on his heels. Then, as Zal raised \expndtw-4 the poleax, Conan darted in under the blow, and the next \expndtw-5 instant Zal was down, writhing in his own blood and en\-\expndtw-3 trails. Conan leaped for the men who still gripped the \expndtw-2 prisoner. They let go of the man, shouting and drawing \expndtw-6 their tulwars. One struck at the Kezankian, who evaded the \expndtw-4 blow by rolling off the bench. Then Conan was between \expndtw-1 him and them. He retreated before their blows, snarling \expndtw-3 at the Kezankiaa:\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Getout! Aheadofme! Quickly!' \expndtw-2 'Dogs!' screamed Red Turban. 'Don't let them escape!' \expndtw-4 'Come and taste of death yourself, dog!' Conan laughed wildly, speaking Zamorian with a barbarous accent.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-5 The Kezankian, weak from torture, slid back a bolt and threw open a door giving upon a small court. He stumbled \expndtw0 across the court while behind him Conan faced his tor\-\expndtw-5 mentors in the doorway, where in the confined space their very numbers hindered them. He laughed and cursed diem \expndtw-3 as he parried and thrust. Red Turban was dancing behind \expndtw-5 the mob, shrieking curses. Conan's scimitar licked out like \expndtw-1 the tongue of a cobra, and a Zamorian shrieked and fell, \expndtw-2 clutching his belly. Jillad, lunging, tripped over him and \expndtw-5 fell. Before the cursing, squirming figures that jammed the \expndtw-6 doorway could untangle themselves, Conao turned and ran \expndtw-2 across the yard toward a wall over which the Kezankian \expndtw-5 had already disappeared.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri230\sb58\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-5 Sheathing his weapons, Conan leaped and caught the \expndtw-3 coping, swung himself up, and had one glimpse of the \expndtw-6 black, winding street outside. Then something smashed against his head, and limply he toppled from the wall into \expndtw-7 the shadowy street below.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb125\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 The tiny glow of a taper in his face roused Conan. He \expndtw3 sat up, blinking and cursing, and groped for his swonl, \expndtw2 Then the light was blown out and a voice spoke in the \expndtw-7 darkness.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-4 'Be at ease, Conan of Ciiraneria. I am your friend.' \expndtw-2 'Who in Crom's name are you?' demanded Conan. He \expndtw-1 had found his scimitar on the ground nearby, and he \expndtw-6 stealthily gathered his legs under him for a spring. He was \expndtw-1 in the street at the foot of the wall from which he had \expndtw0 fallen, and the other man was but a dim bulk looming \expndtw-7 over him in the shadowy starlight.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 'Your friend,' repeated the other in a soft Iranistanian \expndtw-6 accent. 'Call me Sassan.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 Conan rose, scimitar in hand. The Iranistani extended something toward him. Cona caught the glint of steel in \expndtw-4 the starlight, but before he could strike he saw that it was \expndtw-8 his own knife, hilt first.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-7 'You're as suspicious as a starving wolf, Conan,' laughed \expndtw-3 Sassan. 'But save your steel for your enemies.' \expndtw-7 'Where are they ?' Conan took the knife. \expndtw3 'Gone. Into the mountains, on the trail of the blood\-\expndtw-8 stained god.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri67\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-4 Conan stared and caught Sassan's khilat in an iron grip and glared into the man's dark eyes, mocking and mys\-\expndtw-6 terious in the starlight.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri77\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-6 'Damn you, what know you of the bloodstained god?\super 1 \expndtw-4\nosupersub Conan's knife touched the Iranistani's side below his ribs. \expndtw-6 'I know this,' said Sassan. 'You came to Arenjun follow\-\expndtw-8 ing thieves who stole from you the map of a treasure greater \expndtw-5 than Yildiz's hoard. I, too, came seeking something. I was hiding nearby, watching through a hole in the wall, when you burst into the room where the Kezankian was being tortured. How did you know it was they who stole your \expndtw-7 map?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 'I didn't,' muttered Conan. 'I heard a man cry out and \expndtw0 thought it a good idea to interfere. If I had known they \expndtw6 were the men I sought. . . how much do you know?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 'This much. Hidden in the mountains near here is an ancient temple which the \lang1049\'db\'cd\lang1058  folk fear to enter. It is said \expndtw-1 to go back to Pre-Cataclysmic times, though the wise men disagree as to whether it is Grondarian or was built by the \expndtw0 unknown pre-human folk who ruJed the Hyrkanians just \expndtw-1 after the Cataclysm.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb67\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2 'The Kezankians forbid die region to all outsiders, but \expndtw1 a Nemedian named Ostorio did find the temple. He en-1 \expndtw3 tered it and discovered a golden idol crusted with red \expndtw2 jewels, which he called the bloodstained god. He could \expndtw1 not bring it away with him, as it was bigger than a man, but he made a map, intending to return. Although he got \expndtw0 safely away, he was stabbed by some ruffian in Shadizar and died there. Before he died be gave the map to you, \expndtw2 Conan.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb115\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-5 'Well ?' demanded Conan grimly. The house behind him \i\bullet\bullet  \expndtw-3\i0 was dark and still.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb106\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw10 'The map was stolen/ said Sassan. 'By whom, you I \expndtw-2 know.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb77\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw8 'I didn't know at the time,' growled Conan. 'Later I \expndtw1 learned the thieves were Zyras, a Corinthian, and Arshak, \expndtw6 a disinherited Turanian prince. Some skulking servant \expndtw4 spied on Ostorio as he lay dying and told them. Though \expndtw6 I knew neither by sight, I traced them to this city. To- I \expndtw1 night I learned they were hiding in this alley. I was blun\-dering about looking for a clue when I stumbled into that brawl.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri278\sb67\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 'You fought them in ignorance!' said Sassan. 'The \expndtw-1 Kezankian was Rustum, a spy of the Kezankian chieftain Keraspa. They lured him into their house and were singe\-\expndtw-2 ing him to make him tell them of the secret trails through \expndtw-1 the mountains. You know the rest.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 'All except what happened when I climbed the wall.'\par
\expndtw5 'Somebody threw a stool at you and hit your head. \expndtw-4 When you fell outside the wall they paid you no more heed, \expndtw-2 either thinking you were dead or not knowing you in your \expndtw4 mask. They chased the Kezankian, but whether they \expndtw1 caught him I know not. Soon they returned, saddled up, \expndtw-1 and rode like madmen westward, leaving the dead where \expndtw4 they fell. I came to see who you were and recognized \expndtw-6 you.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 'Then the man in the red turban was Arshak,' muttered \expndtw-2 Conan. 'But where was Zyras?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2 'Disguised as a Turanian - the man they called Jillad.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 'Oh. Well then ?' growled Conan.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw3 'Like you, I want the red god, even though of all the \expndtw-1 men who have sought it down the centuries only Ostorio \expndtw-2 escaped with his life. There is supposed to be some mys\-terious curse on would-be plunderers\emdash '\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 'What know you of that?' said Conan, sharply.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 Sassan shrugged. 'Nothing much. The folk of Kezankia speak of a doom that the god inflicts on those who raise covetous hands against him, but I'm no superstitious fool. \expndtw-4 You're not afraid, are you ?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Of course not!' As a matter of fact Conan was. Though he feared no man or beast, the supernatural filled his bar\-\expndtw1 barian's mind with atavistic terrors. Still, he did not care \expndtw-3 to admit die fact. 'What have you in mind ?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri48\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw3 'Why, only that neither of us can fight Zyras' whole \expndtw-2 band alone, but together we can follow them and take the \expndtw-4 idol from them. What do you say?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri58\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 'Aye, I'D do it. But I'll kill you like a dog if you try any \expndtw-1 tricks!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 Sassan laughed. 'I know you would, so you can trust \expndtw-4 me. Come; I have horses waiting.'\par
\par
\expndtw-2 The Iranistani led the way through twisting streets over\-\expndtw-3 hung with latticed balconies and along stinking alleys until \expndtw10 he stopped at the lamplit door of a courtyard. At hi! \expndtw1 knock, a bearded face appeared at the wicket. After sortif muttered words, the gate opened. Sassan strode in, Come \expndtw4 following suspiciously. But the horses were there, and \i i \expndtw6\i0 word from the keeper of the sera set sleepy servants to \expndtw1 saddling them and filling the saddle pouches with food.  I \expndtw6 Soon Conan and Sassan were riding together out of; \expndtw-1 the west gate, perfunctorily challenged by the sleepy guard Sassan was portly but muscular, with a broad, shrewd face \expndtw6 and dark, alert eyes. He bore a horseman's lance over\super 1 \nosupersub his shoulder and handled his weapons with the expert-\expndtw4 ness of practice. Conan did not doubt that in a pinch he \expndtw-1 would fight with cunning and courage. Conan also did not! \expndtw4 doubt that he could trust Sassan to play fair just so long \expndtw5 as the alliance was to his advantage, and to murder his \expndtw2 partner at the first opportunity when it became expedient to do so in order to keep all the treasure himself.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Dawn found them riding through the rugged defiles of \expndtw2 the bare, brown, rocky Kezankian Mountains, separating \expndtw5 the easternmost marches of Koth and Zamora from the \expndtw0 Turanian steppes. Though both Koth and Zamora claimed \expndtw6 the region, neither had been able to subdue it, and the \expndtw1 town of Arenjun, perched on a steep-sided hill, had sue- \bullet  \expndtw5 cessfully withstood two sieges by the Turanian hordes \expndtw8 from the east. The road branched and became fainter \expndtw4 until Sassan confessed himself at a loss to know where \expndtw-4 they were.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri288\sb106\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 'I'm still following their tracks.,' grunted Conan. 'If you \expndtw-1 cannot see them, I can.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 Hours passed, and signs of the recent passage of horses \expndtw1 became clear. Conan said. 'We're closing on them, and \expndtw4 they still outnumber us. Let us stay out of sight until \expndtw-4 they get the idol, then ambush them and take it from them,' \par
\expndtw-1 Sassan's eyes gleamed. 'Good! But let's be wary! this is \expndtw-2 the country of Keraspa, who robs all he catches,'\par
Midaftemoon found them still following the trace of an \expndtw2 ancient, forgotten road. As they rode toward a narrow \expndtw-4 gorge, Sassan said:\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sb38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 'If that Kezankian got back to Keraspa, the Kezankians \expndtw1 will be alert for strangers...'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 They reined up as a lean, hawk-faced Kezankian rode \expndtw0 out of the gorge with hand upraised. 'Halt!' he cried. 'By \expndtw-3 what leave do you ride in the land of Keraspa?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw5 'Careful/ muttered Conan. 'They may be all around \expndtw-2 us.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 'Keraspa claims toll on travelers,' answered Sassan un\-\expndtw3 der his breath. 'Maybe that is all this fellow wants.' \expndtw0 Fumbling in his girdle, he said to the tribesman: 'We are \expndtw-1 but poor travelers, glad to pay your brave chief's toll. We \expndtw-7 ride alone.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri58\sb38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 'Then who is that behind you?' demanded the Kezank\-\expndtw3 ian, nodding his head in the direction from which they \expndtw-11 had come.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri67\sb48\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 Sassan half turned his head. Instantly the Kezankian whipped a dagger from his girdle and struck at the Irani-\expndtw-19 Btani.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri67\sb38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Quick as he was, Conan was quicker. As the dagger \expndtw3 darted at Sassan's throat, Conan's scimitar flashed and \expndtw-1 steel rang. The dagger whirled away, and with a snarl the Kezankian caught at his sword. Before he could pull the \expndtw-2 blade free, Conan struck again, cleaving turban and skull. \expndtw0 The Kezankian's horse neighed and reared, throwing the corpse headlong. Conan wrenched his own steed around.\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw6 'Ride for the gorge!' he yelled. 'It's an ambush!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb48\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 As the Kezankian tumbled to earth, there came the flat \expndtw4 snap of bows and the whistle of arrows. Sassan's horse leaped as an arrow struck it in the neck and bolted foi \expndtw2 the mouth of the defile. Conan felt an arrow tug at hii \expndtw-1 sleeve as he struck in the spurs and fled after Sassan, whc \expndtw-3 was unable to control his beast.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 As they swept towards the mouth of the gorge, three \expndtw0 horsemen rode out swinging broad-bladed tulwars. Sas\-\expndtw-1 san, abandoning his effort to check his maddened mounl, \expndtw2 drove his lance at the nearest. The spear transfixed the \expndtw-1 man and hurled him out of the saddle.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 The next instant Conan was even with a second swords\-\expndtw-2 man, who swung the heavy tulwar. The Cimmerian threw \expndtw2 up his scimitar and the blades met with a crash as the \expndtw-1 horses came together breast to breast. Conan, rising in his \expndtw-2 stirrups, smote downwards with all his immense strength, \expndtw1 beating down the tulwar and splitting the skull of the \expndtw-1 wielder. Then he was galloping up the gorge with arrows \expndtw1 screeching past him. Sassan's wounded horse stumbled \expndtw5 and went down; the Iramstani leaped clear as it fell.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri77\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2 Conan pulled up, snarling: 'Get up behind me!' Sas-san, lance in hand, leaped up behind die saddle. A toad \expndtw-1 of the spurs, and the heavily-burdened horse set off down \expndtw-2 the gorge. Yells behind showed that the tribesmen were \expndtw-1 scampering to their hidden horses. A turn in the gorge \expndtw-4 muffled the noises.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 'That Kezankian spy must have gotten back to Keraspa,' \expndtw0 panted Sassan. 'They want blood, not gold. Do you sup- f \expndtw-3 pose they have wiped out Zyras ?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 'He might have passed before they set up then- ambush. \expndtw-1 or they might have been following him when they turned [ to trap us. I think he's still ahead of us.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw3 A mile further on they heard faint sounds of pursuit. \expndtw1 Then they came out into a natural bowl walled by sheer I \expndtw5 cliffs. From the midst of this bowl a slope led up to a i \expndtw6 bottleneck pass on the other side. As they neared this \expndtw2 pass, Conan saw that a low stone wall closed the gut of \expndtw1 the pass. Sassan yelled and jumped down from the horse \expndtw0 as a flight of arrows screeched past. One struck the horse \expndtw-5 in the chest.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw5 The beast lurched to a thundering fall, and Conan \expndtw-2 jumped clear and rolled behind a cluster of rocks, where \expndtw-1 Sassan had already taken cover. More arrows splintered \expndtw0 against boulders or stuck quivering in the earth. The two \expndtw2 adventurers looked at each other with sardonic humor.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 'We've found Zyras!' said Sassan.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 'In an instant,\super 1\nosupersub  laughed Conan, 'they'll rush us, and Keraspa will come up behind us to close the trap.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 A taunting voice shouted: 'Come out and get shot, \expndtw0 curs! Who's the Zuagir with you, Sassan? I thought I had \expndtw-1 brained him last night!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw3 'My name is Conan,' roared the Cimmerian.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 After a moment of silence, Zyras shouted. \lang1049\'d7\lang1058  might have \expndtw-4 known! Well, we have you now!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 'You're in die same fix!' yelled Conan. 'You heard the \expndtw-5 fighting back down the gorge?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri48\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 'Aye; we heard it when we stopped to water the horses. \expndtw-8 Who's chasing you ?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw4 'Keraspa and a hundred Kezankians! When we are \expndtw0 dead, do you think he'll let you go after you tortured one \expndtw-14 of his men?*\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 'You had better let us join you,' added Sassan.\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri48\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 'Is that the truth?' yelled Zyras, his turbaned head ap\-\expndtw-8 pearing over the wall.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 'Are you deaf, man ?' retorted Conan.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 The gorge reverberated with yells and hoofbeats.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw6 'Get in, quickly!' shouted Zyras. 'Time enough to \expndtw-6 divide the idol if we get out of this alive.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw3 Conan and Sassan leaped up and ran up the slope to \expndtw7 the wall, where hairy arms helped them over. Conan \expndtw-1 looked at his new allies: Zyras, grim and hard-eyed in hi: \expndtw1 Turanian guise; Arshak, still dapper after leagues of rid \expndtw-1 ing; and three\super s\nosupersub swarthy Zamorians who bared their teeth i \expndtw-3 greeting. Zyras and Arshak each wore a shirt of chain mail \expndtw-2 like those of Conan and Sassan.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 The Kezankians, about a score of them,, reined up \i si, \expndtw-2\i0 the bows of the Zamorians and Arshak sent arrows swish \expndtw-3 ing among them. Some of them shot back; others whirled! \expndtw1 and rode back out of range to dismount, as the wall w$ \expndtw0 too high to be carried by a mounted charge. One saddle \expndtw3 was emptied and one wounded horse bolted back dow \expndtw-1 the gorge with its rider.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri48\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2 'They must have been following us,' snarled Zym \expndtw6 'Conan, you lied! That is no hundred men!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Enough to cut our throats,\super 1\nosupersub  said Conan, trying hii \expndtw-1 sword. 'And Keraspa can send for reinforcements when\-\expndtw-4 ever he Bees.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri58\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 Zyras growled: 'We have a chance behind this wall,I \expndtw-4 believe it was built by the same race that built the red god's \expndtw-3 temple. Save your arrows for the rush.*\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri67\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-4 Covered by a continuous discharge of arrows from four \expndtw-3 of their numbers on the flanks, the rest of the Kezankiaos \expndtw-2 ran up the slope in a solid mass, those in front holding up \expndtw0 light bucklers. Behind them Conan saw Keraspa's red \expndtw-3 beard as the wily chief urged his men on.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri96\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 'Shoot!' screamed Zyras. Arrows plunged into the mass of men and three writhing figures were left behind on the \expndtw-5 slope, but the rest came on, eyes glaring and blades glitter\-\expndtw-3 ing in hairy fists.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 The defenders shot their last arrows into die mass and \expndtw-2 then rose up behind the wall, drawing steel. The moun\-\expndtw-1 taineers rolled up against the wall. Some tried to boost \expndtw-2 their fellows up to the top; others pushed small boulders \expndtw2 up against the foot of the wall to provide steps. Along the barrier sounded the smash of bone-breaking blows, the rasp and slither of steel, the gasping oaths of dying \expndtw-4 men. Conan hewed the head from the body of a Kezankianj \expndtw0 and beside him saw Sassan thrust his spear into the open \expndtw6 mouth of another until the point came out at the back \expndtw-1 of the man's neck. A wild-eyed tribesman stabbed a long knife into the belly of one of the Zamorians. Into the gap left by the falling body the howling Kezankian lunged, hurling himself up and over the wall before Conan could \expndtw5 stop him. The giant Cimmerian took a cut on his left \expndtw10 arm and crushed the man's shoulder with a return \expndtw-12 blow.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 Leaping over the body, he hewed into the men swarm\-\expndtw4 ing up over the wall with no time to see how the fight \expndtw-2 was going on either side. Zyras was cursing in Corinthian \expndtw-1 and Arshak in Hyrkanian. Somebody screamed in mortal \expndtw0 agony. A tribesman got a pair of gorilla-like hands on \expndtw-1 Conan's thick neck, but the Cimmerian tensed his neck \expndtw0 muscles and stabbed low with his knife again and again \expndtw-2 until with a moan the Zezankian released him and toppled \expndtw-10 from the wall.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 Gasping for air, Conan looked about him, realizing drat \expndtw-4 the pressure had slackened. The few remaining Kezankians \expndtw1 were staggering down the slope, all streaming blood. \expndtw3 Corpses lay piled deep at the foot of the wall. All three \expndtw1 of the Zamorians were dead or dying, and Conan saw \expndtw-1 Arshak sitting with his back against the wall, his hands \expndtw-5 pressed to his body while blood seeped between his fingers. \expndtw2 The prince's lips were blue, but he achieved a ghastly \expndtw-16 smile.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 'Bom in a palace,' he whispered, 'and dying behind a \expndtw-1 rock wal]! No matter - it is fate. There is a curse on the \expndtw3 treasure - all men who rode on the trail of the blood\-\expndtw-2 stained god have died...' And he died.\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\expndtw1 Zyras, Conan, and Sassan glanced silently at one an\-\expndtw0 other : three grim tattered figures, all splashed with blood. \expndtw6 All had taken minor wounds on their limbs, but their \expndtw2 mail shirts had saved them from the death that had be\-\expndtw-2 fallen their companions.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 'I saw Keraspa sneaking off!' snarled Zyras. 'He'll make \expndtw0 for his village and get the whole tribe on our trail. Let us make a race of it: get the idol and drag it out of \i the \i0 moun\-\expndtw3 tains before he catches us. There's enough treasure for \expndtw-14 all.\super 1\cf0\expndtw0\nosupersub\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 'True,' growled Conan. *But give me back my map be\-\expndtw-1 fore we start.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw3 Zyras opened his mouth to speak, and then saw that Sassan had picked up one of the Zamorians' bows and \expndtw-1 had drawn an arrow on him. 'Do as Conan tells you,' said \expndtw1 the Iranistani.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri58\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 Zyras shrugged and handed over a crumpled parchment. \expndtw2 'Curse you, I still deserve a third of the treasure!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri58\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Conan glanced at the map and thrust it into his girdle. \expndtw-2 'All right; I'll not hold a grudge. You're a swine, but if you \expndtw1 play fair with us we'll do the same, eh, Sassan?\super 1\cf0\expndtw0\nosupersub\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 Sassan nodded and gathered up a quiverful of arrows.\par
\par
The horses of Zyras' party were tied in the pass behind the wall. The three men mounted the best beasts and led \expndtw-2 the three others, up the canyon behind the pass. Night fell, \expndtw-1 but with Keraspa behind them they pushed recklessly on,\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 Conan watched his companions like a hawk. The most dangerous time would come when they had secured the \expndtw1 golden statue and no longer needed each other's help, \expndtw-1 Then Zyras and Sassan might conspire to murder Conan, \expndtw2 or cue of them might approach him with a plan to slay \expndtw-1 the third man. Tough and ruthless though the Cimmerian \expndtw1 was, bis barbaric code of honor would not let him be the \expndtw-2 first to try treachery.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw4 He also wondered what it was that the maker of the \expndtw0 map had tried to tell him just before he died. Death had \expndtw1 come upon Ostorio in the midst of a description of the temple, with a gush of blood from his mouth. The Ne-\expndtw2 median had been about to warn him of something, he \expndtw-2 thought - but of what?\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 Dawn broke as they came out of a narrow gorge into a \expndtw-1 steep-walled valley. The defile through which they had \expndtw2 entered was the only way in. It came out upon a ledge \expndtw3 thirty paces wide, with the cliff rising a bowshot above \expndtw-1 it on one side and falling away to an unmeasurable depth below. There seemed no way down into the mist-veiled \expndtw-5 depths of the valley far below. The men wasted few glances \expndtw2 in this direction, for the sight ahead drove hunger and \expndtw-5 fatigue from their minds.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 There on the ledge stood the temple, gleaming in the \expndtw6 rising sun. It was carved out of the sheer rock of the \expndtw-4 cliff, its great portico facing them. The ledge led to its great \expndtw-5 bronzen door, green with age.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw3 What race or culture it represented Conan did not try \expndtw-2 to guess. He unfolded the map and glanced at the notes on \expndtw1 the margin, trying to discover a method of opening the \expndtw-9 door.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 But Sassan slipped from his saddle and ran ahead of \expndtw-5 them, crying out in his greed.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 'Fool!' grunted Zyras, swinging down from his horse. 'Ostorio left a warning on the margin of the map; some\-\expndtw-3 thing about the god's taking his toll.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 Sassan was pulling at die various ornaments and projec\-\expndtw4 tions on the portal. They heard him cry out in triumph \expndtw-1 as it moved under his hands. Then his cry changed to a \expndtw0 scream as the door, a ton of bronze, swayed outward and \expndtw2 fell crashing, squashing the Iranistani like an insect. He \expndtw1 was completely hidden by the great metal slab, from be\-\expndtw-2 neath which oozed streams of crimson. Zyras shrugged. 'I said he was a fool. Ostorio must have,\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 found some way to swing the door without releasing it\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-5 from its hinges,*\par
\expndtw-1 One less knife in the back to watch for, thought Conan,' \expndtw-3 'Those hinges are false,' he said, examining the mechanism! \expndtw2 at close range. 'Ho! The door is rising back up again I'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri202\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 The hinges were, as Conan had said, fakes. The door \expndtw0 was actually mounted on a pair of swivels at the lower \expndtw1 corners so that it could fall outward like a drawbridge, \expndtw-1 From each upper corner of the door a chain ran diagonally \expndtw2 up, to disappear into a hole near the upper comer of the \expndtw6 door-frame. Now, with a distant grinding sound, tie \expndtw1 chains had tautened and had starte4 to pull the door back \expndtw-2 up into its former position.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri240\sb67\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Conan snatched up the lance that Sassan had dropped, Placing the butt in a hollow in the carvings of the inner \expndtw3 surface of the door, he wedged the point into the corner \expndtw5 of the door frame. The grinding sound ceased and the \expndtw3 door stopped moving in a nine-tenths open position.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri269\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw5 That was clever, Conan,' said Zyras. 'As the god has \expndtw-2 now had his toll, the way should be open.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri114\sb38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw5 He stepped up on to the inner surface of the door and \expndtw3 strode into the temple. Conan followed. They paused on \expndtw0 the threshold and peered into the shadowy interior as they \expndtw4 might have peered into a serpent's lair. Silence held the \expndtw-2 ancient temple, broken only by the soft scuff of their boots.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri114\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2 They entered cautiously, blinking in the half-gloom. In the dimness, a blaze of crimson like the glow of a sunset \expndtw-1 smote their eyes. They saw the god, a thing of gold crusted \expndtw-5 with flaming gems.\par
\par
\expndtw0 The statue, a little bigger than life size, was in the form \expndtw1 of a dwarfish man standing upright on great splay feet on \expndtw2 a block of basalt. The statue faced the entrance, and on \expndtw0 each side of it stood a great carven chair of dense black \expndtw-1 wood, inlaid with gems and mother-of-pearl in a style un\-\expndtw-5 like that of any living nation.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri144\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw5 To the left of the statue, a few feet from the base of \expndtw2 the pedestal, tfae floor of the temple was cleft from wall \expndtw-1 to wall by a chasm some fifteen feet wide. At some time, \expndtw0 probably before the temple had been built, an earthquake \expndtw-2 had split the rock. Into that black abyss, ages ago, scream\-\expndtw1 ing victims had doubtless been hurled by hideous priests \expndtw-1 as sacrifices to the god. The walls were lofty and fantas\-\expndtw-3 tically carved, the roof dim and shadowy above.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri115\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw3 But the attention of the men was fixed on the idol. \expndtw0 Though a brutish and repellant monstrosity, it represented \expndtw-2 wealth that made Conan's brain swim.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw5 'Crom and Ymir!' breathed Conan* 'One could buy a \expndtw-5 kingdom with those rabies! * \expndtw4 'Too much to share with a lout of a barbarian,' panted \expndtw-7 Zyras.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri48\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 These words, spoken half-unconsciously between the \expndtw3 Corinthian's clenched teeth, warned Conan. He ducked \expndtw0 just as Zyras' sword whistled towards his neck; the blade \expndtw-1 sliced a fold from his headdress. Cursing his own careless\-\expndtw0 ness, Conan leaped back and drew his scimitar.\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 Zyras came on in a rush and Conan met him. Back and \expndtw1 forth they fought before the leering idol, feet scuffing on \expndtw-2 the rock, blades rasping and ringing. Conan was larger than \expndtw2 the Corinthian, but Zyras was strong, agile, and experi\-\expndtw-2 enced, full of deadly tricks. Again and again Conan dodged \expndtw-1 death by a hair's breadth.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2 Then Conan's foot slipped on the smooth floor and his \expndtw0 blade wavered. Zyras threw all his strength and speed into \expndtw2 a lunge that would have driven his saber through Conan. \par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri278\sl360\slmult1\qj But the Cimmerian was not so off balance as he looked \expndtw-1 With the suppleness of a panther, he twisted his powerful \expndtw2 body aside so that the long blade passed under his right \expndtw1 armpit, plowing through his loose khilat. For an instant, \expndtw-1 the blade caught in the cloth. Zyras stabbed with the dag\-\expndtw-3 ger in his left hand. The blade sank into Conan's right arm, and at the same rime the knifeb Conan's left drove through Zyras' mail shirt, snapping the links, and plunged between \expndtw-2 Zyras' ribs, Zyras screamed, gurgled, reeled back, and fell \expndtw-4 limply.\par
\expndtw2 Conan dropped his weapons and knelt, ripping a strip \expndtw4 of cloth from his robe for a bandage, to add to those he \expndtw2 already wore. He bound up the wound, tying knots with i \expndtw-3 fingers and teeth, and glanced at the bloodstained god Jeer- , \expndtw-1 ing down at him. Its gargoyle face seemed to gloat. Conao \expndtw6 shivered as the superstitious fears of the barbarian ran \expndtw-4 down his spine.\par
\expndtw2 Then he braced himself. The red god was his, but the \expndtw1 problem was, how to get the thing away ? If it were solid \expndtw0 it would be much too heavy to move, but a tap of the butt \expndtw-1 of his knife assured him that it was hollow. He was pacing \expndtw4 about, his head full of schemes for knocking one of the \expndtw-2 carven thrones apart to make a sjedge, levering the god off \expndtw1 its base, and hauling it out of the temple by means of the \expndtw3 extra horses and the chains that worked the falling front \expndtw-4 door, when a voice made him whirl.\par
\expndtw0 'Stand where you are I' It was a shout of triumph in the \expndtw-3 Kezankian dialect of Zamoria.\par
\expndtw-2 Conan saw two men in the doorway, each aiming at him \expndtw0 a heavy double-curved bow of the Hyrfcanian type. One \expndtw-3 was tall, lean and red-bearded.\par
\expndtw0 'Keraspa!' said Conan, reaching for the sword and the \expndtw-3 knife he had dropped.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb787\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw7 The other man was a powerful fellow who seemed \expndtw-11 familiar.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri67\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 'Stand back!' said the Kezankian chief. 'You thought I \expndtw-3 had ran away to my village, did you not? Well, I followed \expndtw-2 you all night, with the only one of my men not wounded.' \expndtw-1 His glance appraised the idol. 'Had I known the temple contained such treasure I should have looted it long ago, \expndtw1 despite the superstitions of my people. Rustum, pick up \expndtw-7 his sword and dagger.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri58\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 The man stared at the brazen hawk's head that formed \expndtw-5 the pommel of Conan's scimitar.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Wait!' he cried. 'This is he who saved me from torture \expndtw-1 inArenjun! I know this blade I'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2 'Be silent!' snarled the chief. 'The thief dies!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri48\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw5 'Nay! He saved my life! What have I ever had from \expndtw0 you but hard tasks and scanty pay? I renounce my alle\-\expndtw-5 giance, you dog!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2 Rustum stepped forward, raising Conan's sword, but \expndtw0 then Keraspa turned and released his arrow. The missile thudded into Rustum's body. The tribesman shrieked and \expndtw-1 staggered back under the impact, across the floor of the \expndtw-2 temple, and over the edge of me chasm. His screams came \expndtw9 up, fainter and fainter, until they could no longer be \expndtw-8 heard.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Quick as a striking snake, before the unarmed Conan could spring upon him, Keraspa whipped another arrow from his quiver and notched it. Conan had taken one step \expndtw2 in a tigerish rush that would have thrown him upon the \expndtw-3 chief anyway when, without the slightest warning, the ruby-\expndtw0 crusted god stepped down from its pedestal with a heavy metallic sound and took one long stride towards Keraspa.\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 With a frightful scream, the chief released his arrow at \expndtw2 the animated statue. The arrow struck the god's shoulder \expndtw1 and bounced high, turning over and over, and the idol's \expndtw0 long arms shot out and caught the chief by an arm and a \expndtw-5 leg.\par
\expndtw-1 Scream after scream came from the foaming lips of \expndtw2 Keraspa as the god turned and moved ponderously to\-\expndtw-2 wards the chasm. The sight had frozen Conan with horror, \expndtw-1 and now the idol blocked his way to the exit; either to the \expndtw1 right or the left his path would take him within reach of \expndtw-1 one of those ape-long arms. And the god, for all its mass, \expndtw-4 moved as quickly as a man.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 The red god neared the chasm and raised Keraspa high \expndtw2 over its head to hurl him into the depths. Conan saw \expndtw1 Keraspa's mouth open in the midst of his foam-dabbled \expndtw-2 beard, shrieking madly. When Keraspa had been disposed \expndtw-3 of, \scaps do \scaps0 doubt the statue would take care of him. The ancient \expndtw3 priests did not have to throw the god's victims into the \expndtw1 gulf; the image took care of that detail himself.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 As the god swayed back on its golden heels to throw the \expndtw3 chief, Conarij groping behind him, felt the wood of one \expndtw1 of the thrones. These had no doubt been occupied by the \expndtw-1 high priests or other functionaries of the cult in the ancient days. Conan turned, grasped the massive chair by its back, \expndtw2 and lifted it. With muscles cracking under the strain, he \expndtw4 whirled the throne over his head and struck the god's \expndtw-2 golden back between the shoulders, just as Keraspa's body, \expndtw-3 still screaming, was cast into the abyss.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri48\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw4 The wood of the throne splintered under the impact \expndtw2 with a rending crash. The blow caught the deity moving forward with the impulse that it had given Keraspa and overbalanced it. For the fraction of a second the mon\-strosity tottered on the edge of the chasm, long golden \expndtw-1 arms lashing the air; and then it, too, toppled into the gulf. \expndtw1 Conan dropped the remains of the throne to peer over \expndtw-3 the edge of the abyss. Keraspa's screams had ceased. Conan fancied that he heard a distant sound such as the idol might \expndtw-4 have made in striking the side of the cliff and bouncing off., \expndtw2 fat below, but he could not be sure. There was no final \expndtw-4 crash or thump; only silence.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 Conan drew his muscular forearm across his forehead \expndtw5 and grinned wryly. The curse of the bloodstained god \expndtw-1 was ended, and the god with it. For all the wealth that had gone into the chasm with the idol, the Cimmerian was not \expndtw0 sorry to have bought his life at that price. And there were \expndtw-4 other treasures.\par
\expndtw0 He gathered up his sword and Rustum's bow, and went \expndtw-3 out into the morning sunshine to pick a horse.\par
\pard\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa60\sl360\slmult1\qc\cf0\expndtw0\b\i\fs28 THE FROST GIANT'S DAUGHTER\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri163\sb240\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\b0\fs24 Fed up with civilization and its magic, Conan rides \expndtw-1 back to his native Cimmeria. After a month or two of \expndtw-2 wenching and drinking, however, he grows restless \expndtw-1 enough to join his old friends, the Msir, in a raid into \expndtw-2 Vanaheim.\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb278\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2 The clangor of sword and ax had died away; the shout\-\expndtw-1 ing of the slaughter was hushed; silence lay on the red-\expndtw0 stained snow. The bleak, pale sun that glittered so blind-\expndtw-4 jngly from the ice fields and the snow-covered plains struck \expndtw-2 sheens of sflver from rent corselet and broken blade where \expndtw0 the dead lay as they had fallen. The nerveless hand yet \expndtw1 gripped the broken hilt; helmeted heads, drawn back in \expndtw2 their death throes, tilted red beards and golden beards \expndtw0 grimly upward, as if in a last invocation to Ymir the frost \expndtw-4 giant, god of a warrior race.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sb38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 Across the reddened drifts and the mafl-clad forms, two \expndtw2 figures glared at each other. In all that utter desolation, \expndtw-3 they alone moved- The frosty sky was over them, the white \expndtw2 illimitable plain around them, the dead men at their feet.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw4 Slowly through the corpses they came, as ghosts might \expndtw2 come to a tryst through the shambles of a dead world. In \expndtw-3 the brooding silence, they stood face to face. \expndtw0 Both were tall men, built as powerfully as tigers. Their \expndtw6 shields were gone, their corselets battered and dented. \expndtw2 Blood dried on their mail; their swords were stained red. \expndtw1 Their horned helmets showed the marks of fierce strokes. \expndtw2 One was beardless and black-maned; the locks and beard \expndtw-1 of the other were as red as the blood on the sunlit snow.\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri125\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\expndtw2 'Man,' said the latter, 'tell me your name, so that my \expndtw-3 brothers in Vanaheim may know who was die last of Wulf-\expndtw-1 here's band to fall before the sword of Heimdul.*\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri106\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2 'Not in Vanaheim,' growled the black-haired warrior, \expndtw1 'but in Valhalla shall you tell your brothers that you met \expndtw-10 Conan of Cimmeria I *\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri86\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw3 Heimdul roared and leaped, his sword flashing in a \expndtw0 deadly arc. As the singing blade crashed on his helmet, \expndtw-1 shivering into bits of blue fire, Conan staggered, and his \expndtw-4 vision was filled with red sparks. But, as he reeled, he thrust \expndtw-2 with all the power of his broad shoulders behind the blade. \expndtw2 The sharp point tore through brass scales and bones and heart, and the red-haired warrior died at Conan's feet.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri48\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw3 The Cimmerian stood upright, trailing his sword, a \expndtw0 sudden sick weariness assailing him. The glare of the sun on the snow cut his eyes like a knife, and the sky seemed \expndtw2 shrunken and strangely apart. He turned away from the \expndtw3 trampled expanse, where yellow-bearded warriors lay \expndtw4 locked with red-haired slayers in the embrace of death. \expndtw7 A few steps he took, and the glare of the snow fields \expndtw0 was suddenly dimmed. A rushing wave of blindness en\-\expndtw1 gulfed him, and he sank down into the snow, supporting \expndtw-1 himself on one mailed arm and seeking to shake the blind\-\expndtw1 ness out of his eyes as a lion might shake his mane.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 A silvery laugh cut through his dizziness, and his sight \expndtw-3 slowly cleared. He looked up; there was a strangeness about \expndtw2 all the landscape that he could not place or define - an \expndtw4 unfamiliar tinge to earth and sky. But he did not think \expndtw-3 long of this. Before him, swaying like a sapling in the wind, \expndtw-2 stood a woman. To his dazed eyes her body was like ivory, and, save for a light veil of gossamer, she was naked as the \expndtw2 day. Her slender feet were whiter than the snow they \expndtw-1 spurned. She laughed down at the bewildered warrior with \expndtw4 a laughter that was sweeter than the rippling of silvery \expndtw-2 fountains and poisonous with cruel mockery.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb58\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 'Who are you?' asked the Cimmerian. 'Whence come \expndtw3 you?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb67\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 'What matter?' Her voice was more musical than a \expndtw-1 silver-stringed harp, but edged with cruelty.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 'Call up your men,\super 1\nosupersub  said he grasping his sword. 'Though \expndtw-1 my strength fail me, yet they shall not take me alive. I see \expndtw-2 that you are of the Vanir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 'Have I said so?'\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sb38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 His gaze went again to her unruly locks, which at first \expndtw2 glance he had thought to be ted. Now he saw that they \expndtw0 were neither red nor yellow but a glorious compound of \expndtw-1 both colors. He gazed spellbound. Her hair was like elfin gold; the sun struck it so dazzlingly that he could scarcely \expndtw-3 bear to look upon it. Her eyes were likewise neither wholly \expndtw-1 blue nor wholly gray, but of shifting colors and dancing \expndtw0 lights and clouds of colors he could not have named. Her \expndtw-1 full red lips smiled, and from her slender feet to the blind\-ing crown of her billowy hair, her ivory body was as per\-fect as the dream of a god. Conan's pulse hammered in his \expndtw-2 temples.\par
\expndtw3 'I cannot tell/ said he, 'whether you are of Vanaheim \expndtw1 and mine enemy, or of Asgard and my friend. Far have I \expndtw0 wandered, but a woman like you I have never seen. Your \expndtw1 locks blind me with their brightness. Never have I seen such hair, not even among the fairest daughters of the \expndtw10 Asir.ByYmir\emdash '\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri96\sb48\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 'Who are you to swear by Ymir?' she mocked. 'What \expndtw-3 know you of the gods of ice and snow, you who have come \expndtw3 up from the South to adventure among an alien people?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri106\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 'By the dark gods of my own race!' he cried in anger. \expndtw3 'Though I am not of the golden-haired JEsir, none has \expndtw5 been more forward in swordplay! This day I have seen \expndtw1 fourscore men fallj and I alone have survived the field \expndtw-4 where Wulfhcre's reavers met the wolves of Bragi. Tell me, woman, have you seen the flash of mail out across the snow \expndtw0 plains, or seen armed men moving upon the ice?'\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri86\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw3 'I have seen the hoarfrost glittering in the sun/ she \expndtw1 answered, 'I have heard the wind whispering across the \expndtw-6 everlasting snows.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri67\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 He shook his head with a sigh. "Niord should have come \expndtw-1 up with us before the battle joined. I fear he and his fight\-\expndtw0 ing men have been ambushed. Wulfhere and his warriors \expndtw-1 lie dead\expndtw14 ...\expndtw-1  I had thought there was no village within many \expndtw1 leagues of this spot, for the war carried us far; but you \expndtw-2 cannot have come a great distance over these snows, naked \expndtw-1 as you are. Lead me to your tribe, if you are of Asgard, for \expndtw-2 I am faint with blows and the weariness of strife.\super 1\cf0\expndtw0\nosupersub\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri48\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 'My village is further than you can walk\sub 3\nosupersub  Conan of Cim-\expndtw-1 meria,' she laughed. Spreading her arms wide, she swayed \expndtw0 before him, her golden head lolling sensuously and her scintillant eyes half shadowed beneath their long silken \expndtw-1 lashes. 'Am I not beautiful, \lang1049\'ce\lang1058  man?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Like dawn running naked on the snows/ he muttered, \expndtw-5 his eyes burning like those of a wolf.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2 Then why do you not rise and follow me? Who is the \expndtw4 strong warrior who falls down before me?' she chanted \expndtw-3 in maddening mockery. 'Lie down and die in the snow with \expndtw-2 the other fools, Conan of the black hair. You cannot follow \expndtw-3 where I would lead.'\par
\par
\expndtw6 With an oath, the Cimmerian heaved himself up on \expndtw0 his feet, his blue eyes blazing, his dark scarred face con\-\expndtw2 torted. Rage shook his soul, but desire for the taunting \expndtw0 figure before him hammered at his temples and drove his wild blood fiercely through his veins. Passion fierce as physical agony flooded his whole being, so that earth and \expndtw-1 sky swam red to his dizzy gaze. In the madness that swept upon him, weariness and faintness were swept away.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 He spoke no word as he sheathed his bloody sword and \expndtw0 drove at her, fingers spread to grip her soft flesh. With a \expndtw-4 shriek of laughter she leaped back and ran, laughing at him \expndtw0 over her white shoulder. With a low growl, Conan fol\-\expndtw-1 lowed. He had forgotten the fight, forgotten the mailed \expndtw0 warriors who lay in their blood, forgotten Niord and the \expndtw-1 reavers who failed to reach the battie. He thought only of \expndtw-2 the slender white shape, which seemed to float rather than run before him.\par
\expndtw0 Out across the blinding-white plain the chase led. The trampled red field fell out of sight behind him, but still \expndtw1 Conan kept on with the silent tenacity of his race. His mailed feet broke through the frozen crust; he sank deep \expndtw3 in the drifts and forged through them by sheer brute \expndtw1 strength. But the girl danced across the snow, light as a \expndtw0 feather floating on a pool; her naked feet barely left their \expndtw2 imprint on the hoarfrost that overlaid the crust. Despite \expndtw4 the fire in his veins, the cold bit through the warrior's \expndtw0 mail and fur-lined tunic; but the girl in her gossamer veil \expndtw1 ran as lightly and as-gaily as if she danced through me \expndtw-3 palms and rose gardens of Poitain.\par
\expndtw-1 On and on she led, and Conan followed. Black curses \expndtw0 drooled through the Cimmerian's parched lips. The great veins in his temples swelled and throbbed, and his teeth \expndtw-3 gnashed.\par
\expndtw4 'You cannot escape me!' he roared. 'Lead me into a \expndtw1 trap and I'll pile the heads of your kinsmen at your feet! \expndtw-2 Hide from me and I'll tear the mountains apart to find youl \expndtw-1 I'll follow you to Hell itself!'\par
\par
\expndtw0 Foam flew from the barbarian's lips as her maddening \expndtw1 laughter floated back to him. Farther and farther into the \expndtw0 wastes she led him. As the hours passed and the sun slid \expndtw2 down its long slant to the horizon, the land changed; the \expndtw0 wide plains gave way to low hills, marching upward in \expndtw1 broken ranges. Far to the north he caught a glimpse of \expndtw-3 towering mountains, their eternal snows blue with distance \expndtw1 and pink in the rays of the blood-red setting sun. In the \expndtw0 darkling skies above them shone the flaring rays of the \expndtw-2 aurora. They spread fanwise into the sky - frosty blades of cold, flaming light, changing in color, growing and bright\-\expndtw-10 ening.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri86\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 Above him the skies glowed and crackled with strange \expndtw1 lights and gleams. The snow shone weirdly: now frosty \expndtw-1 hlue, now icy crimson, now cold silver. Through a shim\-\expndtw-3 mering, icy realm of enchantment Conan plunged doggedly \expndtw-4 onward, in a crystalline maze where the only reality was the \expndtw-1 white body dancing across the glittering snow beyond his \expndtw-3 reach - ever beyond his reach.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri58\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 He did not wonder at the strangeness of it all - not even \expndtw-4 when two gigantic figures rose up to bar his way. The scales \expndtw-1 of their mail were white with hoarfrost; their helmets and \expndtw-2 axes were covered with ice. Snow sprinkled their locks, in \expndtw-1 their beards were spikes of icicles, and their eyes were as \expndtw-3 cold as the lights that streamed above them.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri48\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 'Brothers!' cried the girl, dancing between them. 'Look \expndtw-1 who follows! I have brought you a man to slay I Take his \expndtw2 heart, that we may lay it smoking on our father's board!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 The giants answered with roars like the grinding of ice\-\expndtw-2 bergs on a frozen shore. They heaved up their axes, shining \expndtw1 in the starlight, as the maddened Cimmerian hurled him\-\expndtw0 self upon them. A frosty blade flashed before his eyes, \expndtw1 blinding him with its brightness, and he gave back a ter\-rible stroke that sheared through his foe's leg at the knee.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2 With a groan, the victim fell, and at the same instant \expndtw1 Conan was dashed into the snow, his left shoulder numb \expndtw-1 from a glancing blow of the survivor's ax, from which the Cimmerian's mail had barely saved his life. Conan saw the \expndtw-2 remaining giant looming high above him like a colossus \expndtw-1 carved of ice, etched against the coldly glowing sky. The as fell - to sink through the snow and deep into the frozen \expndtw-2 earth as Conan buried himself aside and leaped to his feet. The giant roared and wrenched his ax free; but, even as he \expndtw2 did, Conan's sword sang down. The giant's knees bent, \expndtw-1 and he sank slowly into the snow, which turned crimson \expndtw1 with the blood that gushed from his half-severed neck.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 Conan wheeled to see the girl standing a short distance away, staring at him in wide-eyed horror, all the mockery \expndtw1 gone from her face. He cried out fiercely, and drops of \expndtw-4 blood flew from his sword as his hand shook in the intensity of his passion.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb58\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 'Call the rest of your brothers!' he cried. 'I'll give their \expndtw2 hearts to me wolves! You cannot escape me \expndtw12 ..."\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 With a cry of fright, she turned and ran fleetly. She did \expndtw-2 not laugh now, nor mock him over her white shoulder. She \expndtw1 ran as for her life. Although he strained every nerve and \expndtw2 thew, until his temples were like to burst and the snow \expndtw-1 swam red to his gaze, she drew away from him, dwindling \expndtw0 in the witch-fire of the skies until she was a figure no big\-\expndtw1 ger than a child, then a dancing white flame on the snow, \expndtw3 then a dim blur in the distance. But, grinding his teeth \expndtw1 until the blood started from his gums, Conan reeled on, \expndtw-3 until he saw the blur grow to a dancing white flame, and the flame to a figure as big as a child; and then she was running \expndtw1 less than a hundred paces ahead of him. Slowly, foot by \expndtw-2 foot, the space narrowed.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri134\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2 She was running with effort now, her golden locks \expndtw5 blowmg free; he heard the quick panting of her breath \expndtw4 and saw the flash of fear in the look she cast over her \expndtw5 white shoulder. The grim endurance of the barbarian \expndtw-1 served him well. The speed ebbed from her flashing white \expndtw5 legs; she reeled in her gait. In Conan's untamed soul \expndtw2 leaped up the fires of Hell she had so well fanned. With \expndtw0 an inhuman roar, he closed in on her, just as she wheeled \expndtw4 with a haunting cry and flung out her arms to fend him \expndtw-12 off.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri77\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2 His sword fell into the snow as he crushed her to him. \expndtw-2 Her lithe body bent backward as she fought with desperate \expndtw2 frenzy in his iron arms. Her golden hair blew about his \expndtw0 face, blinding him with its sheen; the feel of her slender body, twisting in his mailed arms, drove him to blinder \expndtw3 madness. His strong fingers sank deep into her smooth fiesh - flesh as cold as ice. It was as if he embraced, not \expndtw-1 a woman of human flesh and blood, but a woman of nam\-\expndtw3 ing ice. She writhed her golden head aside, striving to \expndtw1 avoid the fierce kisses that braised her red lips.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 *You are as cold as the snows,' he mumbled dazedly. \expndtw3 Til warm you with the fire of my own blood ...'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri48\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 With a scream and a desperate wrench, she slipped from \expndtw-2 his arras, leaving her single gossamer garment in his grasp. \expndtw1 She sprang back and faced him, her golden locks in wild \expndtw-2 disarray, her white bosom heaving, her beautiful eyes blaz\-\expndtw3 ing with terror. For an instant he stood frozen, awed by \expndtw0 her terrible beauty as she stood naked against the snows.\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 And in that instant she flung her arms toward the lights \expndtw-2 that glowed in the skies and cried out, in a voice that would \expndtw6 ring in Conan's ears forever after: 'Ymir! \lang1049\'ce\lang1058  my father, \expndtw-13 save me I\super 1\cf0\expndtw0\nosupersub\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Conan was leaping forward, arms spread to seize her, when with a crack like the breaking of a mountain of ice \expndtw2 the whole sky leaped into icy fire. The girl's ivory body \expndtw-1 was suddenly enveloped in a cold, blue flame so blinding \expndtw1 that the Cimmerian threw up his hands to shield his eyes \expndtw6 from the intolerable blaze. For a fleeting instant, skies \expndtw-5 and snowy hills were bathed in crackling white flames, blue \expndtw-2 darts of icy light, and frozen crimson fires.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 Then Conan staggered and cried out. The girl was gone, \expndtw2 The glowing snow lay empty and bare; high above his \expndtw-1 head the witch-lights played in a frosty sky gone mad. \expndtw-2 Among the distant blue mountains there sounded a rolling thunder as of a gigantic war chariot, rushing behind steeds \expndtw-1 whose frantic hoofs struck lightning from the snows and \expndtw-4 echoes from the skies.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb48\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 Then the aurora, the snow-clad hills, and the blazing heavens reeled dmnkenly to Conan's sight. Thousands of \expndtw-1 fireballs burst with showers of sparks, and the sky itself \expndtw2 became a titanic wheel, which rained stars as it spun. \expndtw-1 Under his feet the snowy hills heaved up like a wave, and the Cimmerian crumpled into the snows to lie motionless.\par
\expndtw1 In a cold dark universe, whose sun was extinguished \expndtw0 eons ago, Conan felt the movement of life, alien and un-\expndtw-4 guessed. An earthquake had him in its grip arid was shaking \expndtw-1 him to and fro, at the same time chafing his hands and feet \expndtw1 until he yelled in pain and fury and groped for his sword,\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri48\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\f1 'He's coming to, Horsa,' said a voice. 'Hasten - we must rub the frost out of his limbs, if he's ever to wield sword \expndtw2 again.'\cf0\expndtw0\f0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri67\sb86\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2 'He won't open his left hand,' growled another. 'He's \expndtw-5 clutching something^\emdash '\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb48\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 Conan opened his eyes and stared into the bearded faces \expndtw5 that bent over him. He was surrounded by tall, golden-\expndtw-2 haired warriors in mafl and furs. \expndtw2 'Conan!' said one. 'You live!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri106\sb48\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2 'By Crom, Niord,' gasped the Cimmerian. 'Am I alive, \expndtw-3 or are we all dead and in Valhalla ?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri106\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw8 *We live,' grunted the As. busy over Conan's half-\expndtw1 frozen feet. 'We had to fight our way through an ambush, \expndtw-1 or we had come up with you before the battle was joined. \expndtw3 The corpses were scarce cold when we came upon the \expndtw-3 field. We did not find you among the dead, so we followed \expndtw0 your spoor. In Ymir's name, Conan, why did you wander \expndtw-1 off into the wastes of the North? We have followed your \expndtw0 tracks in the snow for hours. Had a blizzard come up and hidden them, we had never found you, by Ymir!'\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri96\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 'Swear not so often by Ymir,' muttered a warrior un\-\expndtw-1 easily, glancing at the distant mountains. 'This is his land, \expndtw-3 and legends say the god bides among yonder peaks.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri48\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw4 'I saw a woman,' Conan answered hazily. 'We met \expndtw-1 Bragi's men in the plains. I know not how long we fought. \expndtw1 1 alone lived. I was dizzy and faint. The land lay like a \expndtw4 dream before me; only now do all things seem natural \expndtw0 and familiar. The woman came and taunted me. She was \expndtw-1 beautiful as a frozen flame from Hell. A strange madness \expndtw2 fell upon me when I looked at her, so I forgot all else in \expndtw-1 the world. I followed her. Did you not find her tracks? Or \expndtw-4 the giants in icy mail I slew?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 Niord shook his bead. 'We found only your tracks in the \expndtw-5 snow, Conan.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw3 'Then it may be that I am mad,' said Conan dazedly. \expndtw-1 'Yet you yourself are no more real to me than was the \expndtw-2 golden-locked wench who fled naked across the snows be\-\expndtw3 fore me. Yet from under my very hands she vanished in \expndtw0 icy flame.'\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 'He is delirious,' whispered a warrior.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 'Not so!' cried an older man, whose eyes were wild and \expndtw0 weird. 'It was Atali, the daughter of Ymir, the frost giant! To fields of the dead she comes and shows herself to the \expndtw6 dying! Myself when a boy I saw her, when I lay half \expndtw2 slain on the bloody field of Wolfraven. I saw her walk \expndtw-3 among the dead in the snows, her naked body gleaming like \expndtw1 ivory and her golden hair unbearably bright in the moon\expndtw-1  light. I lay and howled like a dying dog because I could \expndtw-4 not crawl after her. She lures men from stricken fields into \expndtw-1 the wastelands to be slain by her brothers, the ice giants, who lay men's red hearts smoking on Ymir's board. The \expndtw1 Cimmerian has seen Atali, the frost giant's daughter!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2 'Bah!' grunted Horsa. 'Old Conn's mind was touched in his youth by a sword cut on the head. Conan was \expndtw-1 delirious from the fury of the battle; look how his helmet \expndtw-3 is dinted. Any of those blows might have addled his brain. \expndtw0 It was a hallucination he followed into the wastes. He is \expndtw2 from the South; what does he know of Atali?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 'You speak truth., perhaps,' muttered Conan. 'It was all \expndtw1 strange and weird - by Crom!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 He broke off., glaring at the object that still dangled \expndtw-2 from his clenched left fist. The others gaped silently at the \expndtw0 veil he held up - a wisp of gossamer that was never spun \expndtw-2 by human distaff.\par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa60\sl360\slmult1\qc\cf0\expndtw0\b\i\fs28 THE LAIR OF THE ICE WORM\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri346\sb240\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2\b0\fs24 Haunted by Atali's icy beauty and bored with the \expndtw0 simple life of the Cimmerian villages, Conan rides \expndtw1 south toward the civilized realms, hoping to find a \expndtw0 ready market for his sword as a \i0 condottiere \i in the \expndtw-2 service of various Hyborian princelings. At this time, Conan is about twenty-three.\par
\expndtw2\i0 All day, the lone rider had breasted the slopes of the Eiglophian Mountains, which strode from east to west \expndtw-1 across the world like a mighty wall of snow and ice, sun\-\expndtw0 dering the northlands of Vanaheim, Asgard, and Hyper-\expndtw-1 borea from the southern kingdoms. In the depth of winter, \expndtw-5 most of the passes were blocked. With the coming of spring, \expndtw-4 however, they opened, to afford bands of fierce, light-haired \expndtw1 northern barbarians routes by which they could raid the \expndtw-3 warmer lands to the south.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2 This rider was alone. At the top of the pass that led \expndtw3 southward into the Border Kingdom and Nemedia, he \expndtw-2 reined in to sit for a moment, looking at the fantastic scene\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb48\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-5 before him.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 The sky was a dome of crimson and golden vapors, \expndtw0 darkening from the zenith to the eastern horizon with the \expndtw-1 purple of oncoming evening. But the fiery splendor of the \expndtw0 dying day still painted the white crests of the mountains \expndtw-1 with a deceptively warm-looking rosy radiance. It threw shadows of deep lavender across the frozen surface of a \expndtw5 titanic glacier, which wound like an icy serpent from a \expndtw-1 coomb among the higher peaks\sub ;\nosupersub  down and down until it \expndtw-3 curved in front of the pass and then away again to the left, \expndtw-4 to dwindle in the foothills and turn into a flowing stream of \expndtw-1 water. He who traveled through the pass had to pick his \expndtw-2 way cautiously past the margin of the glacier, hoping that \expndtw-1 he would neither fall into one of its hidden crevasses nor \expndtw-2 be overwhelmed by an avalanche from the higher slopes. The setting sun turned the glacier into a glittering expanse \expndtw-1 of crimson and gold. The rocky slopes that rose from the \expndtw3 glacier's flanks were dotted with a thin scattering of \expndtw-3 gnarled, dwarfish trees.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 This, the rider knew, was Snow Devil Glacier, also known as the River of Death Ice. He had heard of it, al\-\expndtw0 though his years of wandering had never before chanced \expndtw-1 to take him there. Everything he had heard of this glacier-guarded pass was shadowed by a nameless fear. His own \expndtw1 Cimmerian fellow-tribesmen, in their bleak hills to the \expndtw-2 west, spoke of the Snow Devil in terms of dread, although \expndtw0 no one knew why. Often he had wondered at the legends \expndtw-3 that clustered about the glacier, endowing it with the vague aura of ancient evil. Whole parties had vanished there, men said, never to he heard of again.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sb38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 The Cimmerian youth named Conan impatiently dis\-\expndtw0 missed these rumors. Doubtless, he thought, the missing \expndtw-1 men had lacked mountaineering skill and had carelessly \expndtw0 strayed out on one of the bridges of thin snow that often \expndtw-1 masked glacial crevasses. Then the snow bridge had given \expndtw1 way, plunging them all to their deaths in lhe hue-green \expndtw0 depths of the glacier. Such things happened often enough, Crom knew; more than one boyhood acquaintance of the \expndtw4 young Cimmerian had perished thus. But this was no reason to refer to the Snow Devil with shudders, dark \expndtw-2 hints, and sidelong glances.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri154\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Conan was eager to descend the pass into the low hills \expndtw-4 of the Border Kingdom, for he had begun to find the simple \expndtw-2 life of his native Cimmerian village boring. His ill-fated \expndtw3 adventure with a band of golden-haired ffisir on a raid \expndtw-3 into Vanaheim had brought him hard knocks and no profit. \expndtw0 It had also left him with the haunting memory of the icy \expndtw-2 beauty of Atali, the frost giant's daughter, who had nearly \expndtw-5 lured him to an icy death.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri115\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 Altogether, he had had all he wanted of the bleak north-\expndtw-1 lands. He burned to get back to the hot lands of the South, \expndtw-2 to taste again the joys of silken raiment, golden wine, fine \expndtw-1 victuals, and soft feminine flesh. Enough., he thought, of the dull round of village life and the Spartan austerities of \expndtw-8 camp and field!\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri77\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 His horse picked its way to the place where the glacier \expndtw-1 thrust itself across the direct route to the lowlands. Conan \expndtw0 slid off his mount and led the animal along the narrow pathway between the glacier on his left and the lofty, \expndtw-1 snow-covered slope on his right. His huge bearskin cloak exaggerated even his hulking size. It hid the coat of chain \expndtw-3 mail and the heavy broadsword at his hip.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 His eyes of volcanic blue glowered out from under the \expndtw-1 brim of a horned helmet, while a scarf was wound around \expndtw4 the lower part of his face to protect his lungs from the \expndtw3 bite of the cold air of the heights. He carried a slender \expndtw5 lance in his free hand. Where me path meandered out \expndtw2 over the surface of the glacier, Conan went gingerly, \expndtw1 thrusting the point of the lance into the snow where he \expndtw0 suspected that it might mask a crevasse. A battle-ax hung \expndtw-4 by its thong from his saddle.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 He neared the end of the narrow path between the glacier \expndtw0 and the hillside, where the glacier swung away to the left \expndtw-2 and the path continued down over a broad, sloping surface, \expndtw1 lightly covered with spring snow and broken by boulders \expndtw-1 and hummocks. Then a scream of terror made him whip \expndtw-2 around and jerk up his helmeted head.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 A bowshot away to his left, where the glacier leveled off before beginning its final descent,-a group of shaggy, hulk\-\expndtw-1 ing creatures ringed a slim girl in white furs. Even at this \expndtw-3 distance, in the clear mountain air, Conan could discern the \expndtw-6 warm, fresh-cheeked oval of her face and the mane of glossy \expndtw0 brown hair that escaped from under her white hood. She \expndtw-4 was a real beauty.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 Without waiting to ponder the matter, Conan threw off \expndtw0 his cloak and, using his lance as a pole, vaulted into the saddle. He gathered up the reins and drove his spurs into the horse's ribs. As the startled beast reared a little in the haste with which it bounded forward, Conan opened his \expndtw-1 mouth to utter die weird and terrible Cimmerian war cry -\expndtw-2 then shut it again with a snap. As a younger man he would \expndtw-1 have uttered this shout to hearten himself, but his years of \expndtw1 Turanian service had taught him the rudiments of crafti\-\expndtw-3 ness. There was no use in warning the girl's attackers of his coming any sooner than he must.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 They heard his approach soon enough, however. Al\-\expndtw-1 though the snow muffled his horse's hoofs, the faint jingle of his mail and the creak of his saddle and harness caused \expndtw1 one of them to turn. This one shouted and pulled at his \expndtw0 neighbor's arm, so that in a few seconds all had turned to see Conan's approach and set themselves to meet it.\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri67\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 There were about a dozen of the mountain men, armed \expndtw-3 with crude wooden clubs and with stone-headed spears and \expndtw0 axes. They were short-limbed, thick-bodied creatures, wrapped in tattered., mangy furs. Small, bloodshot eyes \expndtw1 glared out from under beetling brows and sloping fore\-\expndtw0 heads; thick lips drew back to reveal large yellow teeth. \expndtw-2 They were like leftovers from some earlier stage of human \expndtw-3 evolution., about which Conan had once heard philosophers \expndtw0 argue in die courtyards of Nemedian temples. Just now, \expndtw-3 however, he was too fully occupied with guiding his horse \expndtw0 and aiming his lance to spare such matters more than the \expndtw-3 barest fleeting thought. Then he crashed among them like a thunderbolt.\par
\par
\expndtw-1 Conan knew that the only way to deal with such a number \expndtw-3 of enemies afoot was to take full advantage of the mobility \expndtw3 of the horse - to keep moving, so as never to let them \expndtw0 cluster around him. For while his mail would protect his \expndtw-2 own body from most of their blows, even their crude wea\-pons could quickly bring down his mount. So he drove to\-\expndtw-3 ward the nearest beast-man, guiding his horse a little to the \expndtw-7 left.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 As the iron lance crushed through bone and hairy flesh, \expndtw-3 the mountain man screamed, dropped his own weapon, and \expndtw4 tried to clutch at the shaft of Conan's spear. The thrust \expndtw2 of the horse's motion hurled the sub-man to earth. The \expndtw1 lance head went down and the butt rose. As he cantered \expndtw0 through the scattered band, Conan dragged his lance free.\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Behind him, the mountain men broke into a chorus of yells and screams. They pointed and shouted at one an\-other, issuing a dozen contradictory commands at once. Meanwhile Conan guided his mount in a tight circle and \expndtw-1 galloped back through the throng. A thrown spear glanced from his mailed shoulder; another opened a small gash in \expndtw-3 his horse's flank. But he drove his lance into another moun\-\expndtw-1 tain man and again rode free, leaving behind a wriggling, thrashing body to spatter the snow with scarlet.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 At his third charge., the man he speared rolled as he fell, \expndtw0 snapping the lance shaft. As he rode clear, Conan threw away the stump of the shaft and seized the haft of the ax \expndtw-3 that hung from his saddle. As he rode into them once more, \expndtw-5 he leaned from his saddle. The steel blade flashed fire in the \expndtw-2 sunset glow as the ax described a huge figure-eight, with \expndtw0 one loop to the right and one to the left. On each side, a \expndtw-4 mountain man fell into the snow with a cloven skull. Crim\-\expndtw-3 son drops spattered the snow. A third mountain man, who did not move quickly enough., was knocked down and \expndtw-1 trampled by Conan's horse.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 With a wail of terror, the trampled man staggered to his \expndtw3 feet and fled limping. In an instant, the other six had \expndtw-5 joined him in panic-stricken flight across the glacier. Conan \expndtw-3 drew rein to watch their shaggy figures dwindle - and then \expndtw-2 had to leap clear of the saddle as his horse shuddered and \expndtw-1 fell. A flint-headed spear had been driven deep into the \expndtw2 animal's body, just behind Conan's left leg. A glance \expndtw-2 showed Conan that the beast was dead.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 'Crom damn me for a meddling fool!' he growled to \expndtw-1 himself. Horses were scarce and costly in the northlands. \expndtw0 He had ridden this steed all tie way from far Zamora. He \expndtw-2 had stabled and fed and pampered it through the long win\-\expndtw-1 ter. He had left it behind when he joined the .ffisir in their \expndtw-4 raid, knowing that deep snow and treacherous icewould rob \expndtw-2 it of most of its usefulness. He had counted upon the faith\-ful beast to get him back to the warm lands, and now it lay \expndtw-4 dead, all because he had impulsively intervened in a quarrel \expndtw-1 among the mountain folk that was none of his affair.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri48\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 As his panting breath slowed and the red mist of battle \expndtw1 fury faded out of his eyes, he turned toward the girl for \expndtw-2 whom he had fought. She stood a few feet away, staring at \expndtw-3 him wide-eyed.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri58\sb48\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 'Are you all right, lass ?* he grunted. 'Did the brutes hurt \expndtw2 you? Have \scaps do \scaps0 fear; I'm not a foe. I am Conan, a Cim\-\expndtw1 merian.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri58\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 Her reply came in a dialect he had never heard before. It \expndtw3 seemed to be a form of Hyperborean, mixed with words \expndtw-4 from other tongues - some from Nemedian and others from \expndtw0 sources he did not recognize. He found it hard to gather \expndtw-5 more than half her meaning.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri58\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw4 'You fight - like a god/ she panted. 'I thought - you \expndtw-6 Ymii come to save Ilga.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 As she cabled, he drew the story from her in spurts of \expndtw-4 words. She was Ilga of the Vimnian people, a branch of the \expndtw-1 Hyperboreans who had strayed into the Border Kingdom. \expndtw0 Her folk lived in perpetual war with the hairy cannibals \expndtw1 who dwelt in caves among the Eiglophian peaks. The struggle for survival in this barren realm was desperate; \expndtw-1 she would have been eaten by her captors had not Conan \expndtw-8 rescued her.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 Two days before, she explained, she had set out with a \expndtw-5 small party of Vinmians to cross the pass above Snow Devil \expndtw-2 Glacier. Thence they planned to journey several days' ride \expndtw0 northeast to Sigtona, the nearest of the Hyperborean strongholds. There they had kinsmen, among whom the \expndtw2 Virunians hoped to trade at the spring fair. There Ilga's \expndtw-2 uncle, who accompanied her, also meant to seek a good husband for her. But they had been ambushed by the hairy \expndtw0 ones, and only Ilga had survived the terrible battle on the \expndtw1 slippery slopes. Her uncle's last command to her, before \expndtw-4 he fell with his skull cleft by a flint ax, had been to ride like \expndtw-6 the wind for home.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 Before she was out of sight of the mountain men, her \expndtw1 horse had fallen on a patch of ice and broken a leg. She \expndtw2 had thrown herself clear and, though bruised, had fled \expndtw1 afoot. The hairy ones, however, had seen the fall, and a \expndtw-1 party of them came scampering down over the glacier to \expndtw2 seize her. For hours, it seemed, she had run from them, But at last they had caught up with her and ringed her \expndtw-3 round, as Conan had seen.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw4 Conan granted his sympathy; his profound dislike of \expndtw-2 Hyperboreans, based upon his sojourn in a Hyperborean \expndtw1 slave pen, did not extend to their women. It was a hard \expndtw-4 tale, but life in the bleak northJands was grim. He had often \expndtw-2 heard the like.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 Now, however, another problem faced them. Night had \expndtw-1 fallen, and neither had a horse. The wind was rising, and \expndtw1 they would have little chance of surviving through the \expndtw-1 night on the surface of the glacier. They must find shelter \expndtw-5 and make a fire, or Snow Devil Glacier would add two more \expndtw-3 victims to its toll.\par
\par
\expndtw4 Late that night, Conan fell asleep. They had found a \expndtw1 hollow beneath an overhang of rock on the side of the \expndtw-2 glacier, where the ice had melted away enough to let them \expndtw-1 squeeze in. With their backs to the granite surface of the \expndtw2 cliff, deeply scored and striated by the rubbing of the \expndtw-2 glacier, they had room to stretch out. In front of the hollow \expndtw-3 rose the flank of the glacier - clear, translucent ice, fissured \expndtw-1 by cavernous crevasses and tunnels. Although the chill of \expndtw-4 the ice struck through to then: bones, they were still warmer \expndtw0 than they would have been on the surface above, where a \expndtw-4 howling wind was now driving dense clouds of snow before \expndtw1 it.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 Ilga had been reluctant to accompany Conan, although \expndtw1 he made it plain that he meant the lass no harm. She had \expndtw-2 tugged away from his hand, crying out an unfamiliar word, \expndtw-1 which sounded something like \i yakhmar. \i0 At length, losing \expndtw1 patience, he had given her a mfld cuff on the side of the \expndtw0 head and carried her unconscious to the dank haven of the \expndtw-7 cave.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri77\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 Then he had gone out to recover his bearskin cloak and \expndtw1 the gear and supplies tied to his saddle. From the rocky \expndtw-3 slope that rose from the edge of the glacier, he had gathered \expndtw-2 a double armful of twigs, leaves, and wood, which he had \expndtw3 carried to the cave. There, with flint and steel, he had \expndtw-1 coaxed a small fire into life. It gave more the illusion of \expndtw0 warmth than true warmth, for he dared not let it grow too \expndtw-1 large lest it melt the nearby walls of the glacier and flood \expndtw-4 them out of their refuge.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri58\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 The orange gleams of the fire shone deeply into the fis\-\expndtw7 sures and tunnels that ran back into the body of the \expndtw-2 glacier until their windings and branchings were lost in the \expndtw1 dim distance. A faint gurgle of running water came to Conan's ears, now and then punctuated by the creak and \expndtw-7 crack of slowly moving ice.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 Conan went out again into the biting wind, to hack from \expndtw-2 the stiffening body of his horse some thick slabs of meat. \expndtw1 These he brought back to the cave to roast on the ends of \expndtw2 pointed sticks. The horse steaks, together with slabs of \expndtw-1 black bread from his saddle bag, washed down with bitter \expndtw1 Asgardian beer from a goatskin bottle, made a tough but \expndtw-4 sustaining repast.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 Ilga seemed withdrawn as she ate. At first Conan thought she was still angry with him for the blow. But it was gradu\-\expndtw-1 ally borne upon him that her mind was not on this incident \expndtw-4 at ah\super 1\nosupersub . She was, instead, in the grip of stark terror. It was not \expndtw0 the normal fear she had felt for the band of shaggy brutes \expndtw-1 that had pursued her, but a deep, superstitious dread some\-how connected with the glacier. When he tried to question \expndtw1 her, she could do nothing but whisper the strange word, \expndtw-1\i 'Yakhmar! Yakhmar!' \i0 while her lovely face took on a pale, \expndtw0 drawn look of terror. When he tried to get the meaning of the word out of her\sub s\nosupersub  she could only make vague gestures, which conveyed nothing to him.\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 After the meal, warm and weary, they curled up together \expndtw3 in his bearskin cloak. Her nearness brought to Conan's \expndtw4 mind the thought that a bout of hot love might calm her \expndtw-2 mind for sleep. His first tentative caresses found her not at \expndtw-1 all unwilling. Nor was she unresponsive to his youthful \expndtw-4 ardor; as he soon discovered, she was not new to this game. \expndtw-3 Before the hour of lovemaking was over, she was gasping \expndtw-4 and crying out in her passion. Afterwards, thinking her now \expndtw-1 relaxed, the Cimmerian rolled over and slept like a dead \expndtw-3 man.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sb278\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 The girl, however, did not sleep. She lay rigid, staring \expndtw-2 out at the blacloiess that yawned in the ice cavities beyond \expndtw-4 the feeble glow of the banked fire. At last, near dawn, came \expndtw-1 the thing she dreaded.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 It was a faint piping sound - a thin, ullulating thread of \expndtw-2 music that wound around her mind until it was as helpless \expndtw1 as a netted bird. Her heart fluttered against her ribs. She \expndtw0 could neither move nor speak, even to rouse the snoring \expndtw-2 youth beside her.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 Then two disks of cold green fire appeared in the mouth \expndtw0 of the nearest ice tunnel - two great orbs that burned into \expndtw-3 her young soul and cast a deathly spell over her. There was no soul or mind behind those flaming disks - only remorse\-less hunger.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sb38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 Like one walking in a dream, Ilga rose, letting her side \expndtw-2 of the bearskin cloak slide to her feet. Naked, a slim white \expndtw-1 form against the dimness, she went forward into the dark\-\expndtw0 ness of the tunnel and vanished. The hellish piping faded \expndtw-2 and ceased; the cold green eyes wavered and disappeared. And Conan slept on.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri48\sb432\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\i 4\cf0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri125\sb38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 Conan awoke suddenly. Some eery premonition - some \expndtw1 warning from the barbarian's hyperacute senses - sent its \expndtw5 current quivering along the tendrils of his nerves. Like \expndtw-1 some wary jungle cat, Conan came instantly from deep, dreamless slumber to full wakefulness. He lay without \expndtw-2 movement, every sense searching the air around him.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri96\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 Then, with a deep growl rumbling in his mighty chest, \expndtw-1 the Cimmerian heaved to his feet and found himself alone \expndtw0 in the cavern. The girl was gone. But her furs,, which she \expndtw-3 had discarded during dieir lovemaking, were still there. His \expndtw-4 brows knotted in a baffled scowl. Danger was still in the air, \expndtw-1 scrabbling with tenuous fingers at the edges of his nerves.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri58\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 He hastily donned his garments and weapons. With his \expndtw-3 ax in his clenched fist, he thrust himself through the narrow \expndtw-2 space between the overhang and the flank of the glacier. \expndtw0 Outside on the snow, the wind had died. Although Conan \expndtw-1 sensed dawn in the air, no gleam of morning had yet dim\-\expndtw0 med the diamond blaze of thousands of throbbing stars \expndtw-1 overhead. A gibbous moon hung low above the western \expndtw1 peaks, casting a wan glow of pale gold across the snow \expndtw-11 fields.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Conan's keen glance raked the snow. He saw no foot\-\expndtw0 prints near the overhang, nor any sign of struggle. On the \expndtw1 other hand, it was incredible that Ilga should have wan\-\expndtw-2 dered off into the labyrinth of tunnels and crevasses, where \expndtw-3 walking was almost impossible even with spiked boots and \expndtw-1 where a false step could plunge one into one of those cold \expndtw0 streams of ice-melt that run along the bottoms of glaciers.\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 The hairs on Conan's nape prickled at the weirdness of \expndtw-1 the girl's disappearance. At heart a superstitious barbarian, \expndtw1 he feared nothing mortal but was filled with dread and \expndtw2 loathing by the uncanny supernatural beings and forces \expndtw3 that lurked in the dark comers of his primeval world.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 Then, as he continued to search the snow, he went rigid. \expndtw5 Something had lately emerged from a gap in the ice a \expndtw4 few strides from the overhang. It was huge, long, soft, \expndtw1 and sinuous, and it moved without feet. Its writhing track \expndtw-1 was clearly visible in the curving path that its belly had \expndtw-3 crushed in the soft whiteness, like some monstrous serpent \expndtw-4 of the snows.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 The setting moon shone faintly, but Conan's wilderness-\expndtw-2 sharpened eyes easily read the path. This path led, curving around hillocks of snow and outjutting ledges of rock, up \expndtw-1 the hillside away from the glacier - up, toward the wind\-\expndtw3 swept peaks. He doubted that it had gone alone.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 As he followed the path, a bulky., black, furry shadow, \expndtw-1 he passed the place where his dead horse had lain. Now \expndtw1 there was little left of the carcass but a few bones. The track of the thing could be discerned about the remains, \expndtw0 but only faintly, for the wind had blown loose snow over them.\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sb38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 A little further on, he came upon the girl - or what was \expndtw3 left of her. Her head was gone, and with it most of the \expndtw-1 flesh of her upper body, so that the white bones gleamed \expndtw-3 like ivory in the dimming moonlight. The protruding bones \expndtw-4 had been cleaned, as if the flesh had been sucked from them \expndtw-2 or rasped off by some many-toothed tongue.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw3 Conan was a warrior, the hard son of a hard people, \expndtw-3 who had seen death in a thousand forms. But now a mighty \expndtw-1 rage shook him. A few hours before., this slim, warm girl had Iain in the mighty circle of his arms, returning passion \expndtw0 for passion. Now nothing was left of her but a sprawled, \expndtw1 headless thing, like a doll broken and thrown away.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 Conan mastered himself to examine the corpse. With a \expndtw2 grunt of surprise, he found that it was frozen solid and \expndtw-2 sheathed in hard ice. \par
\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri125\sl360\slmult1\qj\expndtw2 Conan's eyes narrowed thoughtfully. She could not have \expndtw1 left his side more than an hour ago, for the cloak had still \expndtw0 held some warmth from her body when he awoke. In so \expndtw-1 brief a time, a warm body does not freeze solid, let alone \expndtw1 become encased in glittering ice. It was not according to nature.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri96\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 Then he grunted a coarse expletive. He knew now, with inward loathing and fury, what had borne the sleeping girl \expndtw0 from his side. He remembered the half-forgotten legends \expndtw2 told around the fire in his Cimmerian boyhood. One of \expndtw-1 these concerned the dread monster of the snows, the grim \expndtw-4 Remora - the vampiric ice worm whose name was an almost \expndtw-1 forgotten whisper of horror in Cimmerian myth.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri58\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 The higher animals, he knew, radiated heat. Below them \expndtw-3 in the scale of being came the scaled and plated reptiles and \expndtw0 fishes, whose temperature was that of their surroundings. \expndtw-2 But the Remora, the worm of the ice lands, seemed unique in that it radiated \i cold; \i0 at least, that was how Conan would \expndtw-3 have expressed it. It gave out a sort of bitter cold that could \expndtw0 encase a corpse in an armor of ice within minutes. Since \expndtw-1 none of Conan's fellow-tribesmen claimed to have seen a \expndtw1 Remora., Conan had assumed that the creature was long \expndtw-6 extinct.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2 This, then, must be the monster that Ilga had dreaded, \expndtw-2 and of which she had vainly tried to warn him by the name \expndtw2\i yakhmar.\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Conan grimly resolved to track the thing to its lair and \expndtw0 slay it. His reasons'for this'decision were vague, even to \expndtw2 himself. But, for all his youthful impulsiveness and his \expndtw1 wild, lawless nature, he had his own rude code of honor. He liked to keep his word and to fulfill an obligation that \expndtw-2 he had freely undertaken. While he did not think of himself \expndtw0 as a stainless, chivalrous hero, he treated women with a \expndtw1 rough kindness that contrasted with the harshness and \expndtw0 truculence with which he met those of his own sex. He \expndtw1 refrained from forcing his lusts upon women if they were \expndtw2 unwilling, and he tried to protect them when he found \expndtw-1 them dependent upon him.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Now he bad failed in his own eyes. In accepting his \expndtw2 rough act of love, the girl Ilga had placed herself under \expndtw3 his protection. Then, when she needed his strength, he \expndtw-1 had slumbered unaware like some besotted beast. Not \expndtw0 knowing about the hypnotic piping sound by which the \expndtw-3 Remora paralyzed its victims and by which it had kept him \expndtw3 - usually a light sleeper - sound asleep, he cursed him\-\expndtw-1 self for a stupid, ignorant fool not to have paid more heed \expndtw4 to her warnings. He ground his powerful teeth and bit \expndtw1 his lips in rage, determined \i to \i0 wipe out this stain on his \expndtw-4 code of honor if it cost him his life.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 As the sky lightened in the east, Conan returned to the \expndtw-4 cave, He bundled together his belongings and laid his plans. \expndtw1 A few years before, he might have rushed out on the ice \expndtw4 worm's trail, trusting to his immense strength and the \expndtw-1 keen edges of his weapons to see him through. But ex\-perience, if it had not yet tamed all his rash impulses, had \expndtw-2 taught him the beginnings of caution.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2 It would be impossible to grapple with the ice worm \expndtw1 with naked bands. The very touch of the creature meant \expndtw-1 frozen death. Even his sword and his ax were of doubtful \expndtw0 effectiveness. The extreme cold might make their metal \expndtw1 brittle, or the cold might run up their hafts and freeze the \expndtw-1 hand that wielded them.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 But - and here a grim smfle played over Conan's lips -perhaps he could turn the ice worm's power against itself.\cf0\par
\pard\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 Silently and swiftly he made his preparations. Gorged, \expndtw-1 the gelid worm would doubdess slumber through the day\-\expndtw1 light hours. But Conan did not know how long it would \expndtw2 take him to reach the creature's lair, and he feared that \expndtw1 another gale might wipe out its serpentine track. \par
\par
\expndtw4 As it turned out, it took Conan little more than an hour \expndtw-1 to find die ice worm's lair. The dawning sun had ascended \expndtw-4 only a little way above the eastern peaks of the Eiglophians, \expndtw-2 making the snow fields sparkle like pavements of crashed \expndtw1 diamonds, when he stood at last before the mouth of the \expndtw-1 ice cave into which the writhing snow track led him. This \expndtw2 cave opened in the flank of a smaller glacier, a tributary \expndtw-1 of the Snow Devil. From his elevation, Conan could look \expndtw-2 back down the slope to where this minor glacier curved to \expndtw-4 join the main one, like the affluent of a river.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri86\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Conan entered the opening. The light of the rising sun \expndtw3 glanced and flashed from the translucent ice walls on \expndtw0 eirner side, breaking up into rainbow patterns and poly\-\expndtw1 chrome gleams. Conan had the sensation of walking by \expndtw-4 some magical means through the solid substance of a colos\-\expndtw-12 sal gem.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 Then, as he penetrated deeper into the glacier, the dark\-\expndtw6 ness congealed around him. Still, he doggedly set one \expndtw0 foot before the other, plodding onward. He raised the col\-\expndtw-2 lar of his bearskin cloak to protect his face from the numb\-\expndtw3 ing cold that poured past him, making his eyeballs ache \expndtw0 and forcing him to take short, shallow breaths to keep his \expndtw5 lungs from being frosted. Crystals of ice formed like a \expndtw4 delicate mask upon his face, to shatter with each move\-\expndtw0 ment and as quickly to re-form. But he went on, carefully holding that which he carried so gingerly inside his cloak. \expndtw5 Then in the gloom before him opened two cold green \expndtw0 eyes, which stared into the roots of his soul. These lumin\-\expndtw6 ous orbs cast a gelid, submarine light of their own. By \expndtw5 their faint, fungoid phosphorescence, he could see that \expndtw6 there the cavern ended in a round well, which was the \expndtw2 ice worm's nest. Coil on undulating \lang1049\'f1\'ee\'e9\lang1058 , its immense \expndtw1 length was curled in the hollow of its nest. Its boneless \expndtw0 form was covered with the silken nap of diick white fur. \expndtw-2\b Its \b0 mouth was merely a jawless, circular opening, now \expndtw-1 puckered and closed. Above the mouth, the two luminous \expndtw0 orbs gleamed out of a smooth, rounded, featureless, eel-\expndtw-4 like head.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 Replete, the ice worm took a few heartbeats to react to \expndtw-2 Conan's presence. During the countless eons that the thing of the snows had dwelt in the cold silences of Snow Devil \expndtw0 Glacier., no puny man-thing had ever challenged it in the frozen depths of its nest. Now its weird, trilling, mind-binding song rose about Conan, pouting over him in lull\-\expndtw-3 ing, overpowering, narcotic waves.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 But it was too late. Conan threw back his cloak to ex\-\expndtw-3 pose his burden. This was his heavy steel horned Asgardian \expndtw0 helm, into which he had packed the glowing coals of his fire, and in which the head of his ax also lay buried, held \expndtw5 in place by a loop of the chin strap around the handle. \expndtw0 A rein from his horse's harness was looped around the ax \expndtw-2 helve and the chin strap.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 Holding the end of the rein in one hand, Conan whirled \expndtw2 the whole mass over his head, round and round, as if he were whirling a sling. The rash of air fanned the faindy \expndtw3 glowing coals to red, then to yellow, then to white. A \expndtw-2 stench of burning helmet padding arose.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri144\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 The ice worm raised its blunt head. Its circular mouth \expndtw-1 slowly opened, revealing a ring of small, inward-pointing \expndtw4 teeth. As the piping sound grew to an intolerable pitch \expndtw0 and the black circle of mouth moved toward him, Conan \expndtw3 stopped the whirl of the helmet on die end of its thong. \expndtw0 He snatched out the ax, whose helve was charred, smok\-ing and flaming where it entered the fiercely glowing ax \expndtw1 head. A quick cast sent the incandescent weapon looping \expndtw-1 into die cavernous maw. Holding the helmet by one of its \expndtw0 horns, Conan hurled die glowing coals after the ax. Then \expndtw-4 he turned and ran.\par
\par
\expndtw1 Conan never quite knew how he reached the exit. The \expndtw2 writhing agony from the thing of the snows shook die \expndtw-2 glacier. Ice cracked thunderously all around him. The draft \expndtw0 of interstellar cold no longer wafted out of the tunnel; in\-\expndtw1 stead, a blinding, swirling fog of steam choked the air.\par
\expndtw0 Stumbling, slipping, and falling on the slick, uneven \expndtw-1 surface of the ice, banging into one side wall of the tunnel \expndtw3 and then the other, Conan at last reached the outer air. \expndtw0 The glacier trembled beneath his feet with the titanic con\-\expndtw1 vulsions of the dying monster within. Plumes of steam \expndtw-3 wafted from a score of crevasses and caverns on either side \expndtw-2 of Conan, who, slipping and skidding, ran down the snowy \expndtw-1 slope. He angled off to one side to get free of the ice. But, \expndtw1 before he reached the solid ground of the mountainside, \expndtw0 with its jagged boulders and stunted trees, the glacier ex\-\expndtw1 ploded. When the white-hot steel of the ax met the frigid \expndtw-1 interior of the monster, something had to give way.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 With a crashing roar, the ice quivered, broke up, hurled glassy fragments into the air, and collapsed into a chaotic \expndtw-2 mass of ice and pouring water, soon hidden by a vast cloud of vapor. Conan lost his footing, fell, tumbled, rolled, slid, and fetched up with braising force against a boulder on the \expndtw0 edge of the ice flow. Snow stuffed his mouth and blinded \expndtw1 his eyes. A big piece of ice up-ended toppled, and struck his boulder, nearly burying him in fragments of ice.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Half stunnned, Conan dragged himself out from under \expndtw-1 the mass of broken ice. Although cautious moving of his \expndtw8 limbs showed no bones to be broken, he bore enough \expndtw2 bruises to have been in a battle. Above him, a tremen\-\expndtw-2 dous cloud of vapor and glittering ice crystals whirled up\-ward from the site of the ice worm's cavern, now a black \expndtw-1 crater. Fragments of ice and slush poured into this crater \expndtw0 from all sides. The whole level of the glacier in the area \expndtw-1 had sunk.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2 Little by little the scene returned to normal. The bit\-\expndtw5 ing mountain breeze blew away the clouds of vapor. \expndtw1 The water from the melting of the ice froze again. The \expndtw-2 glacier returned to its usual near-immobility.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 Battered and weary, Conan limped down into the pass. Lamed as he was, he must now walk all the way to far \expndtw1 Nemedia or Ophir, unless he could buy, beg, borrow or steal another horse. But he went with a high heart, turn\-\expndtw-3 ing his bruised face southward - to the golden South, where \expndtw0 shining cities lifted tall towers to a balmy sun, and where \expndtw-1 a strong man with courage and luck could win gold, wine, \expndtw-2 and soft, full-breasted women.\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa60\sl360\slmult1\qc\cf0\expndtw0\b\i\fs28 THE VALE OF LOST WOMEN\par
\pard\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw4\b0\i0\fs24 // \i is during his partnership with Belit that Conan \expndtw-3 gains the name Amra, the Lion, which wUl follow him all the rest of his career. Belit has been the first great \expndtw-1 love of his life, and after her death he will not follow \expndtw-4 the sea again for several years. Instead, he plunges in\-\expndtw1 land and joins the first black tribe that offers him \expndtw-2 shelter - the warlike Bamulas. In a jew months he has \expndtw0 fought and intrigued his way to the position of war \expndtw1 chief of the Bamulas, whose power grows rapidly \expndtw-5 under his leadership.\par
\expndtw-1\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\expndtw3 Tbe thunder of the drums and the great elephant-tusk \expndtw-4 horns was deafening., but in Livia's ears the clamor seemed \expndtw-3 but a confused muttering, dull and far away. As she lay on \expndtw2 the angareb in the great hut, her state bordered between \expndtw-2 delirium and semi-consciousness. Outward sounds and \expndtw-4 movements scarcely impinged upon her senses. Her whole \expndtw-2 mental vision, though dazed and chaotic, was yet centered \expndtw-3 with hideous certitude on the naked, writhing figure of her \expndtw3 brother, blood streaming down his quivering thighs. \expndtw-2 Against a dim nightmare background of dusky interweav\-\expndtw-3 ing shapes and shadows, that white form was lined in mer\-\expndtw-4 ciless and awful clarity. The air seemed still to pulsate with an agonized screaming, mingled and interwoven obscenely \expndtw-6 with a rustle of fiendish laughter.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb67\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw3 She was not conscious of sensation as an individual, \expndtw5 separate and distinct from the rest of the cosmos. She \expndtw-4 was drowned in a great gulf of pain - was herself but pain crystallized and manifested in flesh. So she lay without \expndtw-3 conscious thought ot motion, while outside the drums bel\-\expndtw-1 lowed, the horns clamored, and barbaric voices lifted hideous chants, beeping time to naked feet slappbg the \expndtw1 hard earth and open palms smiting one another softly.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 But through her frozen mentality, individual conscious\-\expndtw2 ness at last began to seep. A dull wonder that she was \expndtw-2 still bodily unharmed first made itself manifest. She ac\-\expndtw2 cepted the miracle without thanksgiving. The matter \expndtw-2 seemed meaningless. Acting mechanically, she sat up on \expndtw-1 the angareb and stared dully about her. Her extremities \expndtw-3 made feeble beginnings of motions, as if responding to blindly awakening nerve centers. Her naked feet scuffed \expndtw-5 nervously at the hard-beaten dirt floor. Her fingers twitched \expndtw-2 convulsively at the skirt of the scanty under-tunic which \expndtw-1 constituted her only garment. Impersonally she remem\-\expndtw-2 bered that once, it seemed long, long ago, rude hands had \expndtw-1 torn her other garments from her body, and she had wept \expndtw1 with fright and shame. It seemed strange, now, that so \expndtw-1 small a wrong should have caused her so much woe. The \expndtw-3 magnitude of outrage and indignity was only relative, after \expndtw-4 all, like everything else.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri144\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 The hut door opened, and a woman entered - a lithe, pantherish creature, whose supple body gleamed like \expndtw-6 polished ebony, adorned only by a wisp of silk twisted about \expndtw-2 her strutting loins. The whites of her eyeballs reflected the firelight outside, as she rolled them with wicked meaning. \expndtw-3 She bore a bamboo dish of food - smoking meat, roasted \expndtw-4 yams., mealies, unwieldy ingots of native bread - and a ves\-\expndtw-3 sel of hammered gold, filled with \i yarati \i0 beer. These she set \expndtw-1 down on the angareb, but Livia paid no heed; she sat star\-ing dully at the opposite wall, hung with mats woven of bamboo shoots. The young native woman laughed, with a \expndtw-4 flash of dark eyes and white teeth; and, with a hiss of spite\-\expndtw0 ful obscenity and a mocking caress that was more gross \expndtw1 than her language, she turned and swaggered out of the \expndtw-1 hut, expressing more taunting insolence with the motions \expndtw1 of her hips \ul than\ulnone  any civilized woman could with spoken \expndtw-10 insults.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri115\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Neither the wench's words nor her actions had stirred \expndtw-5 the surface of Livia's consciousness. All her sensations were \expndtw-1 still turned inward. Still the vividness of her mental pic\-\expndtw-3 tures made the visible world seem like an unreal panorama of ghosts and shadows. Mechanically she ate the food and drank the liquor without tasting either.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri77\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 It was still mechanically that at last she rose and walked \expndtw0 unsteadily across the hut, to peer out through a crack be\-\expndtw-1 tween the bamboos. It was an abrupt change in the timbre \expndtw1 of the drums and horns that reacted upon some obscure part of her mind and made her seek the cause, without \expndtw-8 sensible volition.\par
\par
\expndtw3 At first she could make nothing of what she saw; all \expndtw-2 was chaotic and shadowy, shapes moving and mingling, \expndtw-1 wridiing and twisting, black formless blocks hewed out \expndtw3 starkly against a setting of blood-red that dulled and \expndtw0 glowed. Then actions and objects assumed their proper proportions, and she made out men and women moving about die fires. The red light glinted on silver and ivory \expndtw-1 ornaments; white plumes nodded against the glare; naked figures strutted and posed, silhouettes carved out of dark\-\expndtw-4 ness and limned in crimson.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 On an ivory stool, flanked by giants in plumed head\-pieces and leopard-skin girdles, sat a fat, squat shape, \expndtw-2 abysmal, repulsive, a toadlike chunk, reeking of die dank \expndtw3 rotting jungle and the nighted swamps. The creature's \expndtw-1 pudgy hands rested on the sleek arch of his belly; his nape \expndtw-2 was a roll of fat that seemed to thrust his bullet-head for-\expndtw-5 word; his eyes, gleaming coals in a dead black stump. Their \expndtw-2 appalling vitality belied the inert suggestion of the gross \expndtw-4 body.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb58\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-5 As the girl's gaze rested on that figure, her body stiffened \expndtw0 and tensed as frantic life surged through her again. From \expndtw-2 a mindless automaton, she changed suddenly to a sentient \expndtw-1 mold of live, quivering flesh, stinging and burning. Pain \expndtw1 was drowned in hate, so intense it in turn became pain; she felt hard and brittle, as if her body were turning to \expndtw-1 steel. She felt her hate flow almost tangibly out along the \expndtw-2 line of her vision; so it seemed to her that the object of her emotion should fall dead from his carven stool because of \expndtw-3 its force.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sb58\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-4 But if Bajujh, king of Bafcalah, felt any psychic discom\-\expndtw2 fort because of the concentration of his captive, he did \expndtw0 not show it. He continued to cram his froglike mouth to \expndtw-2 capacity with handfuls of mealies scooped up from a ves\-\expndtw-3 sel held up to him by a kneeling woman, and to stare down \expndtw-2 a broad lane which was being formed by the action of his \expndtw-3 subjects in pressing back on either hand.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri58\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 Down this lane, walled with sweaty black humanity, \expndtw-2 Livia vaguely realized some important personage would come, judging from the strident clamor of drum and horn. \expndtw-5 And., as she watched, one came.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri106\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 A column of fighting men, marching three abreast, ad\-\expndtw2 vanced toward the ivory stool, a thick line of waving \expndtw0 plumes and glinting spears meandering through the mot\-\expndtw3 ley crowd. At the head of the ebon spearmen strode a \expndtw2 figure at the sight of which Livia started violently; her \expndtw0 heart seemed to stop, then began to pound again, suffo\-catingly. Against that dusky background, this man stood \expndtw-1 out with vivid distinctness. He was clad like his followers \expndtw3 in leopard-skin loinclout and plumed headpiece, but he \expndtw-11 was a white man.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri67\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2 It was not in the manner of a supplicant or a subord\-\expndtw4 inate that he strode up to the ivory stool, and sudden \expndtw-1 silence fell over the throng as he halted before the squat\-\expndtw-2 ting figure. Livia felt the tenseness, though she only dimly \expndtw0 knew what it portended. For a moment Bajujh sat, cran\-\expndtw1 ing his short neck upward, like a great frog; then, as if \expndtw2 pulled against his will by the other's steady glare, he \expndtw-1 shambled up off his stool, and stood grotesquely bobbing \expndtw-9 his shaven head.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri48\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 Instantly the tension was broken. A tremendous shout \expndtw-1 went up from the massed villagers, and at a gesture from \expndtw2 the stranger, his warriors lifted their spears and boomed \expndtw0 a salute royale for King Bajujh. Whoever he was, Livia \expndtw2 bew the man must indeed be powerful in that wild land, \expndtw-3 if Bajujh of Bakalah rose to greet him. And power meant military prestige - violence was the only thing respected by \expndtw-6 those ferocious races.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb67\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 Thereafter Livia stood with her eyes glued to the crack \expndtw-4 in the hut wall, watching the stranger. His warriors mingled \expndtw-1 with the Bakalahs, dancing, feasting, swigging beer. He \expndtw-2 himself, with a few of his chiefs, sat with Bajujh and the \expndtw-4 headmen of the Bakalah, cross-legged on mats, gorging and \expndtw-2 guzzling. She saw his hands dipped deep into the cooking-\expndtw1 pots with the others, saw his muzzle thrust into the beer \expndtw-1 vessel out of which Bajujh also drank. But she noticed, nevertheless, that he was accorded the respect due a king. \expndtw0 Since he had no stool, Bajujh renounced his also, and sat on the mats with his guest. When a new pot of beer was \expndtw1 brought, the king of Bakalah barely sipped it before he \expndtw5 passed it to the white man. Power! All this ceremonial \expndtw0 courtesy pointed to power - strength - prestigel Li\'99 \expndtw-3 trembled in excitement as a breathless plan began to form \expndtw-2 in her mind.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 So she watched the white man with painful intensity, \expndtw-2 noting every detail of his appearance. He was tall; neither \expndtw-3 in height nor in massiveness was he exceeded by many of \expndtw2 the giant blacks. He moved with the lithe suppleness of \expndtw-1 a great panther. When the firelight caught his blue eyes, \expndtw-3 they burned like blue fire. High-strapped sandals guarded \expndtw-5 his feet, and from his broad girdle hung a sword in a leather \expndtw-2 scabbard. His appearance was alien and unfamiliar; Livia had never seen his like, but she made no effort to classify \expndtw-1 his position among the races of mankind. It was enough \expndtw-3 that his skin was white.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb269\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-4 The hours passed, and gradually the roar of revelry less\-\expndtw-2 ened, as men and women sank into drunken sleep. At last \expndtw1 Bajujh rose tottering and lifted his hands, less a sign to \expndtw-1 end the feast than a token of surrender in the contest of gorging and guzzling, and stumbling, was caught by his \expndtw0 warriors., who bore him to his hut. The white man rose, apparently none the worse for the incredible amount of \expndtw-2 beer he had quaffed, and was escorted to the guest hut by \expndtw0 such of the Bakalah headmen as were able to reel along. \expndtw4 He disappeared into the hut, and Livia noticed that a \expndtw-2 dozen of his own spearmen took their places about the structure, spears ready. Evidently the stranger \scaps whs \scaps0 taking \expndtw-5 no chances on Ba ju jh's friendship.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 Livia cast her glance about the village, which faintly \expndtw1 resembled a dusty Night of Judgment, what with the \expndtw-1 straggling streets strewn with drunken shapes. She knew that men in full possession of their faculties guarded the \expndtw0 outer boma, but the only wakeful men she saw inside the \expndtw2 village were the spearmen about the stranger's hut \i\endash  \i0 and \expndtw5 some of these were beginning to nod and lean on their \expndtw-15 spears.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri125\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Widi her heart beating hammer-like, she glided to the \expndtw-1 back of her prison hut and out the door, passing the snor\-\expndtw0 ing guard Bajujh had set over her. Like an ivory shadow \expndtw-3 she glided across the space between her hut and that occu\-\expndtw-1 pied by the stranger. On her hands and knees she crawled \expndtw-2 up to the back of that hut. A black giant squatted here, his \expndtw-3 plumed head sunk on his knees. She wriggled past him TO \expndtw0 the wall of the hut. She had first been imprisoned in that hut, and a narrow aperture in the wall, hidden inside by a \expndtw2 hanging mat, represented her weak and pathetic attempt \expndtw0 at escape. She found the opening, turned sidewise, and wriggled her lithe body through, thrusting the inner mat \expndtw-13 aside.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri86\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 Firelight from without faintly illumined the interior of \expndtw-1 the hut. Even as she thrust back the mat, she heard a mut\-\expndtw2 tered curse, felt a viselike grasp on her hair, and was dragged bodily through the aperture and plumped down \expndtw-8 on her feet.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sb202\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 Staggering with the suddenness of it, she gathered her \expndtw2 scattered wits together and raked her disordered tresses \expndtw0 out of her eyes, to stare up into the face of the white man who towered over her, amazement written on his dark, \expndtw2 scarred face. His sword was naked in his hand, and his eyes blazed like balefire, whether with anger, suspicion or surprise she could not judge. He spoke in a language \expndtw5 she could not understand - a tongue which was not a \expndtw0 Negro guttural, yet did not have a civilized sound.\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw11 'Oh, pleasel\super 1\nosupersub  she begged. 'Not so loud. \i They \i0 will \expndtw13 hear...' \expndtw1 'Who are you?* he demanded, speaking Ophirean with \expndtw2 a barbarous accent. 'By Crom, I never thought to find a \expndtw-1 white girl in this hellish land!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 'My name is Livia,\super 1\nosupersub  she answered. 'I am Bajujh's cap\-\expndtw-4 tive. Oh, listen, please listen to me! I cannot stay here long. \expndtw-2 I must return before they miss me from my hut.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 'My brother ...' a sob choked her, then she continued: \expndtw-2 'My brother was Theteles, and we were of the house of \expndtw-4 Chelkus, scientists and noblemen of Ophir. By special per\-\expndtw-6 mission of the king of Stygia, my brother was allowed to go \expndtw1 to Kheshatta, the city of magicians, to study their artSj \expndtw-4 and I accompanied him. He was only a boy - younger than \expndtw-2 myself ...' her voice faltered and broke- The stranger said \expndtw1 nothing, but stood watching her with burning eyes, his \expndtw-2 face frowning and unreadable. There was something wild \expndtw-4 and untamable about him mat frightened her and made iicr \expndtw-1 nervous and uncertain.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 "The black Kushites raided Kheshatta.,' she continued hurriedly, "We were approaching the city in a camel cara\-van. Our guards fled, and the raiders carried us away with \expndtw3 them. They did us no harm and let us know that they \expndtw0 would parley with the Stygians and accept a ransom for \expndtw-2 our return. But one of the chiefs desired all the ransom for himself, and he and his followers stole us out of the camp \expndtw-1 one night and fled far to the southeast with us, to the very \expndtw0 borders of Rush. There they were attacked and cut down \expndtw-2 by a band of Bakalah raiders. Theteles and I were dragged \expndtw8 into this den of beasts . . .' she sobbed convulsively. \expndtw-1 '.. .This morning my brother was mutilated and butchered before me . ..' She gagged and went momentarily blind at \expndtw1 the memory. They fed his body to the jackals. How long \expndtw-2 I lay in a faint I do not know ...*\par
\par
\expndtw3 Words failing her, she lifted her eyes to the scowling \expndtw-1 face of the stranger. A mad fury swept over her; she lifted \expndtw0 her fists and beat futilely on his mighty breast, which he \expndtw-7 heeded no more than the buzzing of a fly.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri115\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw3 'How can you stand there like a dumb brute?' She \expndtw-1 screamed in a ghastly whisper. 'Are you but a beast like \expndtw1 these others? Ah, Mitra, once I thought there was honor in men. Now I know each has his price. You - what do \expndtw-4 you know of honor - or of mercy or decency; You are a \expndtw1 barbarian like the others - only your skin is white; your \expndtw-1 soul is as black as theirs. You care naught that a man of \expndtw1 your race has been foully done to death by these dogs -\expndtw-3 that I am their slave! Verywell.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-7 She fell back from him.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri86\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw3 'I will give you a price/ she raved, tearing away her tunic from her ivory breasts. 'Am I not fair? Am I not \expndtw1 more desirable than these native wenches? Am I not a \expndtw-4 worthy reward for bloodletting? Is not a fair-skinned virgin \expndtw-8 a price worth slaying for?\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri67\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 "Kill that black dog Bajujh! Let me see his cursed head \expndtw0 roll in the bloody dust! Kill himl \i Kill him!' \i0 She beat her \expndtw-3 clenched fists together in the agony of her intensity. 'Then \expndtw-4 take me and do as you wish with me. I will be your slavel *\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri58\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 He did not speak for an instant but stood like a giant, \expndtw-2 brooding figure of slaughter and destruction, fingering his \expndtw-24 Ml.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 Tou speak as if you were free to give yourself at your \expndtw2 pleasure,' he said, 'as if the gift of your body had power \expndtw1 to swing kingdoms. Why should I kill Bajujh to obtain \expndtw-1 you? Women are cheap as plantains in this land, and their \expndtw-2 willingness or unwillingness matters as little. You value \expndtw1 yourself too highly. If I wanted you, I wouldn't have to \expndtw0 fight Bajujh to take you. He would rather give you to me \expndtw-11 than fight me.*\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 Livia gasped. All the fire went out of her, the hut reeled \expndtw9 dizzily before her eyes. She staggered and sank in a \expndtw-1 crumpled heap on an angareb. Dazed bitterness crashed \expndtw-2 her soul as the realization of her utter helplessness was \expndtw-1 thrust brutally upon her. The human mind clings uncon\-\expndtw-3 sciously to familiar values and ideas, even among sur\-\expndtw-2 roundings and conditions alien and unrelated to those environs to which such values and ideas are adapted. In \expndtw-1 spite of all Livia had experienced, she had still instinc\-\expndtw0 tively supposed a woman's consent the pivotal point of \expndtw-4 such a game as she proposed to play. She was stunned by \expndtw-1 the realization that nothing hinged upon her at all. She \expndtw-3 could not move men as pawns in a game; she herself was the helpless pawn.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 'I see the absurdity of supposing that any man in this \expndtw-2 comer of the world would act according to rules and cus\-\expndtw-1 toms existent in another corner of the world,' she mur\-\expndtw-5 mured weakly, scarcely conscious of what she was saying, \expndtw-3 which was indeed only the vocal framing of the thought \expndtw3 which overcame her. Stunned by that newest twist of \expndtw-1 fate, she lay motionless, until the white barbarian's iron \expndtw-2 fingers closed on her shoulder and lifted her again to her feet.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 'You said I was a barbarian,' he said harshly, 'and (hat \expndtw-1 is true, Crom be thanked. If you had had men of the out-\expndtw-2 lands guarding you instead of soft-gutted civilized weak\-lings, you would not be the slave of a pig this night. I am \expndtw0 Conan, a Cimmerian, and I live by the sword's edge. But \expndtw1 I am not such a dog as to leave a woman in the dutches \expndtw-4 of a savage; and though your kind call me-a robber, I never \expndtw-1 forced a woman against her consent. Customs differ in various countries, but if a man is strong enough, he can \expndtw-4 enforce a few of his native customs anywhere. And no man \expndtw-5 ever called me a weaklingl\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri115\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 'If you were old and ugly as the devil's pet vulture, I'd take you away from Bajujh, simply because of your race. \expndtw2 But you are young and beautiful, and I have looked at \expndtw-1 native sluts until I am sick at the guts. I'll play this game \expndtw-2 your way, simply because some of your instincts corres\-\expndtw1 pond with some of mine. Get back to your hut. Bajujh's \expndtw0 too drunk to come to you tonight, and I'll see that he's occupied tomorrow. And tomorrow night it will be Co-\expndtw-3 nan's bed you'll warm, not Bajujh's.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri96\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 'How will it be accomplished?' She was trembling with \expndtw-3 mingled emotions. 'Are these all your warriors ?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri77\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 They're enough,\super 1\nosupersub  he grunted. 'Bamulas, every one of \expndtw3 them, and suckled at the teats of war. I came here at \expndtw-1 Bajujh's request. He wants me to join him in an attack on \expndtw0 Jihiji. Tonight we feasted. Tomorrow we hold council. When I get through with him, he'll be holding council in \expndtw-11 Hell.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 'You will break the truce?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 'Truces in this land are made to be broken,' he answered \expndtw1 grimly. 'He would break his truce with Jihiji. And after \expndtw0 we'd looted the town together, he'd wipe me out the first time he caught me off guard. What would be blackest \expndtw4 treachery in another land, is wisdom here. I have not \expndtw-2 fought my way alone to the position of war chief of the \expndtw0 Bamulas without learning all the lessons the black coun\-\expndtw-1 try teaches. Now go back to your hut and sleep, knowing \expndtw1 that it is not for Bajujh but for Conan that you preserve \expndtw-6 your beauty I'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw4 Through the crack in the bamboo wall, Livia watched, \expndtw1 her nerves taut and trembling. All day, since their late \expndtw-2 waking, bleary and sodden from their debauch of the night \expndtw0 before, the people had prepared the feast for the coming \expndtw5 night. All day Conan the Cimmerian had sat in the hut \expndtw-5 of Bajujh, and what had passed between them, Livia could \expndtw-3 not know. She had fought to hide her excitement from the \expndtw0 only person who entered her hut - the vindictive native \expndtw-4 girl who brought her food and drink. But that ribald wench I \expndtw-2 had been too groggy from her libations of the previous \expndtw1 night to notice the change in her captive's demeanor.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri154\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 Now night had fallen again, fires lighted the village, \expndtw-2 and once more the chiefs left the king's hut and squatted \expndtw2 down in the open space between the huts to feast and \expndtw1 hold a final, ceremonious council. This time there was \expndtw-3 not so much beer-guzzling. Livia noticed the Bamulas casually converging toward the circle where sat the chief men. She saw Bajujh, and sitting opposite him across the \expndtw-5 eating pots, Conan, laughing and conversing with the giant \expndtw-2 Aja, Bajujh's war chief.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri163\sb38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 The Cimmerian was gnawing a great beef bone, and as \expndtw-5 she watched, she saw him cast a glance across his shoulder, \expndtw-3 As if it were a signal for which they had been waiting, the \expndtw-1 Bamulas all turned their gaze toward their chief. Conan \expndtw2 rose, still smiling, as if to reach into \i a \i0 nearby cooking \expndtw-2 pot; then quick as a cat he struck Aja a terrible blow with \expndtw-3 the heavy bone. The Bakalah war chief slumped over, his \expndtw-4 skull crushed in, and instantly a frightful yell rent the skies \expndtw-3 as the Bamulas went into action like blood-mad panthers. Cooking pots overturned, scalding the squatting women, bamboo walls buckled to the impact of plunging bodies, \expndtw-2 screams of agony ripped the night, and over all rose the \expndtw0 exultant \i 'Yee! yee! yee!' \i0 of the maddened Bamulas, the \expndtw-1 flame of spears that crimsoned in the lurid glow.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri144\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 Bakalah was a madhouse that reddened into a shambles, The action of the invaders paralyzed the luckless villagers \expndtw1 by its unexpected suddenness. No thought of attack by \expndtw3 their guests had ever entered their heads. Most of the \expndtw6 spears were stacked in the huts, many of the warriors \expndtw3 already half drunk. The fall of Aja was a signal that \expndtw-5 plunged the gleaming blades of the Bamulas into a hundred \expndtw0 unsuspecting bodies; after that it was massacre.\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri67\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 At her peephole, Livia stood frozen, white as a statue, \expndtw1 her golden locks drawn back and grasped in a knotted cluster with both hands at her temples. Her eyes were \expndtw-2 dilated, her whole body rigid. The yells of pain and fury \expndtw1 smote her tortured nerves like a physical impact; the \expndtw0 writhing, slashing forms blurred before her, then sprang \expndtw-3 out again with horrifying distinctness. She saw spears sink \expndtw1 into writhing black bodies, spilling red. She saw clubs \expndtw2 swing and descend with brutal force on heads. Brands \expndtw-2 were kicked out of fires, scattering sparks; hut thatches \expndtw2 smoldered and blazed up. A fresh stridency of anguish \expndtw-1 cut through the cries, as living victims were hurled head\-\expndtw-4 first into the blazing structures. The scent of scorched flesh \expndtw0 began to sicken the air, already rank with reeking sweat \expndtw-10 and fresh blood.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2 Livia's overwrought nerves gave way. She cried out \expndtw8 shrill screams of torment, lost in the roar of flames \expndtw3 and slaughter. She beat her temples with her clenched \expndtw-3 fists. Her reason tottered, changing her cries to more awful \expndtw1 peals of hysterical laughter. In vain she sought to keep \expndtw-3 before her the fact that it was her enemies who were dying \expndtw0 thus horribly - that this was as she had madly hoped and \expndtw1 plotted - that this ghastly sacrifice was a just repayment for the wrongs done her and hers. Frantic terror held her \expndtw-5 in its unreasoning grasp.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-4 She was aware of no pity for the victims who were dying \expndtw2 wholesale under the dripping spears. Her only emotion \expndtw0 was blind, stark, mad, unreasoning fear. She saw Conan, his white form contrasting with the blacks. She saw his sword flash, and men went down around him. Now a \expndtw3 struggling knot swept around a fire, and she glimpsed a \expndtw1 fat squat shape writhing in its midst. Conan plowed \expndtw-5 through and was hidden from view by the twisting black \expndtw-3 figures. From the midst a thin squealing rose unbearably, \expndtw0 The press split for an instant, and she had one awful \expndtw-2 glimpse of a reeling, desperate squat figure, streaming \expndtw-5 blood. Then the strong crowded in again, and steel flashed \expndtw1 in the mob like a beam of lightning through the dusk,\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-4 A beasdike baying rose, terrifying in its primitive exul\-\expndtw2 tation. Through the mob Conan's tall form pushed its \expndtw-3 way. He was striding toward the hut where the girl cow\-\expndtw-4 ered, and in his hand he bore a relic - the firelight gleamed \expndtw1 redly on King Bajujh's severed head. The black eyes, \expndtw-5 glassy now instead of vital, rolled up, revealing only the \expndtw-7 whites; the jaw hung slack as if in a grin of idiocy; red drops \expndtw-3 showered thickly along the ground.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri48\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 Livia gave back with a moaning cry. Conan had paid \expndtw-3 the price and was coming to claim her, bearing the awful \expndtw-4 token of his payment. He would grasp her with his bloody \expndtw-2 fingers, crush her lips with mouth still panting from the \expndtw3 slaughter. With the thought came delirium.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 With a scream Livia ran across the hut, threw herself \expndtw0 against the door in the back wall. It fell open, and she \expndtw-1 darted across the open space, a flitting white ghost in a \expndtw-4 realm of black shadows and red flame.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Some obscure instinct led her to the pen where the \expndtw-3 horses were kept. A warrior was just taking down the bars \expndtw4 that separated the horse pen from the main boma. and \expndtw-2 he yelled in amazement as she darted past him. His hand \expndtw-1 clutched at her, closed on the neck of her tunic, With, a \expndtw-3 frantic jerk she tore away, leaving the garment in his hand. \expndtw0 The horses snorted and stampeded past her, rolling the \expndtw4 warrior in the dust - lean, wiry steeds of the Kushite \expndtw-1 breed, already frantic with the fire and the scent of blood. \expndtw0 Blindly she caught at a flying mane, was jerked off her \expndtw1 feet, struck the ground again on her toes, sprang high, \expndtw0 pulled and scrambled herself upon the horse's straining \expndtw-1 back. Mad with fear the herd plunged through the fires, \expndtw0 their small hoofs knocking sparks in a blinding shower. \expndtw-3 The startled black people had a wild glimpse of the girl, \expndtw7 dinging naked to the mane of a beast that raced like \expndtw-1 the wind that streamed out his rider's loose yellow hair. \expndtw0 Then straight for the boma the steed bolted, soared \expndtw1 breathtakingly into the air, and was gone into the night.\par
\par
\expndtw7 Livia could make no attempt to guide her steed, nor \expndtw-1 did she feel any need of so doing. The yells and the glow \expndtw1 of the fires were fading out behind her; the wind tossed \expndtw3 her hair and caressed her naked limbs. She was aware \expndtw-4 only of a dazed need to hold to the flowing mane and ride, \expndtw0 ride, over the rim of the world and away from all agony \expndtw-7 and grief and horror.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 And for hours the wiry steed raced, until, topping a star\-\expndtw-2 lit crest, he stumbled and hurled his rider headlong.\par
\expndtw-1 She struck on soft cushioning sward, and lay for an in\-\expndtw1 stant half stunned, dimly hearing her mount trot away. \expndtw-1 When she staggered up, the first thing that impressed her \expndtw2 was the silence. It was an almost tangible thing - soft, \expndtw-1 darkly velvet - after the incessant blare of barbaric horns \expndtw0 and drums which had maddened her for days. She stared \expndtw3 up at the great white stars clustered thickly in the dark \expndtw5 sky. There was no moon, yet the starlight illuminated \expndtw2 the land, though illusively, with unexpected clusterings \expndtw-2 of shadow. She stood on a swarded eminence from which \expndtw2 the gently molded slopes ran away, soft as velvet under \expndtw1 the starlight. Far away in one direction she discerned a \expndtw0 dense, dark line of trees which marked the distant forest. Here there was only night and trancelike stillness and a \expndtw-1 faint breeze blowing through the stars.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-4 The land seemed vast and slumbering. The warm caress \expndtw0 of the breeze made her aware of her nakedness, and she ( \expndtw-5 wriggled uneasily, spreading her hands over her body. Then \super ; \expndtw-1\nosupersub she felt the loneliness of the night, and the unbrokenness \expndtw-3 of the solitude. She was alone; she stood on the summit of  ' \expndtw3 land and there was none to see; nothing but night and   ; \expndtw-2 the whispering wind.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri192\sb48\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 She was suddenly glad of the night and the loneliness. \expndtw-2 There was none to threaten her, or to seize her with rude, \expndtw1 violent hands. She looked before her and saw the slope \expndtw6 falling away into a broad valley; there fronds waved \expndtw-1 thickly and the starlight reflected whitely on many small \expndtw2 objects scattered throughout the vale. She thought they were great white blossoms and the thought gave rise to \expndtw4 a vague memory; she thought of a valley of which the \expndtw1 blacks had spoken with fear: a valley to which had fled \expndtw-2 the young women of a strange brown-skinned race which \expndtw3 had inhabited the land before the coming of the ances\-\expndtw2 tors of the Bakalahs. There, men said., they had turned \expndtw-1 into white flowers, had been transformed by the old gods \expndtw2 to escape their ravishers. There no native dared to go.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 But into that valley Livia dared to go. She would go \expndtw1 down those grassy slopes which were like velvet under \expndtw2 her tender feet; she would dwell there among the nod\-\expndtw-3 ding white blossoms, and no man would ever come to lay \expndtw0 rade hands on her. Conan had said that pacts were made \expndtw2 to be broken; she would break her pact with him. She \expndtw-3 would go into the vale of the lost women; she would lose \expndtw-1 herself in solitude and stillness . . . even as these dreamy \expndtw1 and disjointed thoughts floated through her conscious\-ness, she was descending the gende slopes, and the tiers \expndtw-1 of the valley were rising higher on each hand. \par
\par
But so gentle were then: slopes that when she stood on \expndtw-3 the valley floor she did not have the feeling of being im\-\expndtw-1 prisoned by ragged walls. All about her floated seas of \expndtw-2 shadow, and great white blossoms nodded and whispered \expndtw0 to her. She wandered at random, parting the fronds with \expndtw2 her small hands, listening to the whisper of the wind \expndtw-2 through the leaves, finding a childish pleasure in the gur\-\expndtw1 gling of an unseen stream. She moved as in a dream, in \expndtw0 the grasp of strange unreality. One thought reiterated it\-\expndtw5 self continually: there she was safe from the brutality \expndtw-2 of men. She wept, but the tears were of joy. She lay full-\expndtw3 length upon the sward and clutched the soft grass as if \expndtw2 she would crash her new-found refuge to her breast and \expndtw-7 hold it there forever.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri58\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 She plucked the petals of the blossoms and fashioned \expndtw3 them into a chaplet for her golden hair. Their perfume \expndtw-3 was in keeping with all other things in the valley, dreamy, \expndtw-7 subtle, enchanting.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2 So she came at last to a glade in the midst of the val\-ley, and saw there a great stone, hewn as if by human hands, and adorned with ferns and blossoms and chains \expndtw0 of flowers. She stood staring at it, and then there was movement and life about her. Turning, she saw figures \expndtw-2 stealing from the denser shadows - slender brown women, \expndtw-1 lithe, naked, with blossoms in their night-black hair. Like \expndtw3 creatures of a dream they came about her, and they did \expndtw2 not speak. But suddenly terror seized her as she looked \expndtw0 into their eyes. Those eyes were luminous, radiant in the \expndtw-1 starshine; but they were not human eyes. The forms were \expndtw-3 human but in the souls a strange change had been wrought; \expndtw0 a change reflected in their glowing eyes. Fear descended \expndtw1 on Livia in a wave. The serpent reared its grisly head in \expndtw-3 her new-found Paradise.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw4 But she could not flee. The lithe brown women were \expndtw2 all about her. One, lovelier \ul than\ulnone  the rest, came silently \expndtw-1 up to the trembling girl., and enfolded her with supple brown arms. Her breath was scented with the same per\-\expndtw2 fume mat stole from the white blossoms that waved in \expndtw-1 the starshine. Her lips pressed Livia's in a long, terrible \expndtw2 kiss. The Ophirean felt coldness running through her \expndtw-4 veins; her limbs turned brittle; like a white statue of marble \expndtw1 she lay in the arms of her captress, incapable of speech \expndtw-3 or movement.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sb38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 Quick, soft hands lifted her and laid her on the altar-\expndtw-4 stone amidst a bed of flowers. The brown women joined \expndtw-1 hands in a ring and moved supplely about the altar, danc\-ing a strange dark measure. Never the sun or the moon looked on such a dance, and die great white stars grew \expndtw1 whiter and glowed with a more luminous light as if its \expndtw-1 dark witchery struck response in things cosmic and de-mental.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri48\sb38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 And a low chant arose, that was less human than the \expndtw-2 gurgling of the distant stream; a rustle of voices like the whispering of the blossoms that waved beneath the stars. \expndtw0 Livia lay, conscious but without power of movement. It \expndtw2 did not occur to her to doubt her sanity. She sought not \expndtw-1 to reason or analyze; she \i was \i0 and these strange beings dancing about her \i were; \i0 a dumb realization of existence \expndtw1 and recognition of the actuality of nightmare possessed \expndtw-3 her as she lay helplessly gazing up at the star clustered sky, whence, she somehow knew with more than mortal know\-\expndtw-2 ledge, some \i thing \i0 would come to her, as it had come long \expndtw-3 ago to make these naked brown women the soulless beings \expndtw-4 they now were.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri96\sb58\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 First, high above her, she saw a black dot among the \expndtw0 stars, which grew and expanded; it neared her; it swelled \expndtw4 to a bat; and stffl it grew, though its shape did not alter further to any great extent. It hovered over her in die \expndtw-1 stars, dropping plummet-like earthward, its great wings spread over her; she lay in its shadow. And all about her the chant rose higher, to a soft paean of soulless joy, a \expndtw-3 welcome to the god which came to claim a fresh sacrifice, \expndtw-4 fresh and rose-pink as a flower in the dew of dawn.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri67\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Now it hung directly over her, and her soul shriveled \expndtw-1 and grew chill and small at the sight. Its wings were bat-like; but its body and the dim face that gazed down upon \expndtw-2 her were like nothing of sea or earth or air; she knew she \expndtw-3 looked upon ultimate horror, upon black, cosmic foulness \expndtw-2 born in night-black gulfs beyond the reach of a madman's \expndtw-10 wildest dreams.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Breaking the unseen bonds that held her dumb, she \expndtw-2 screamed awfully. Her cry was answered by a deep, men\-\expndtw0 acing shout. She heard the pounding of rushing feet; all about her there was a swirl as of swift waters; the white \expndtw-3 blossoms tossed wildly, and the brown women were gone. \expndtw0 Over her hovered the great black shadow, and she saw a \expndtw-2 tall white figure, with plumes nodding in the stars, rushing \expndtw-9 toward her.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-4\i 'Conan!* \i0 The cry broke involuntarily from her h'ps. With \expndtw-1 a fierce inarticulate yell, the barbarian sprang into the air, \expndtw2 lashing upward with his sword that flamed in the star\-\expndtw-11 light.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 The great black wings rose and fell. Livia, dumb with \expndtw-2 horror, saw the Cimmerian enveloped in the black shadow \expndtw4 mat hung over him. The man's breath came pantingly; \expndtw-1 his feet stamped the beaten earth, crushing the white blos\-\expndtw-3 soms into the dirt. The rending impact of his blows echoed \expndtw4 through the night. He was hurled back and forth like a \expndtw1 rat \lang1049\'f8\lang1058  the grip of a hound; blood splashed thickly on the \expndtw0 sward, mingling with the white petals that lay strewn like \expndtw-8 a carpet. \par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\expndtw-2 And then the girl, watching that devilish battle as in a \expndtw-3 nightmare, saw the black-winged thing waver and stagger \expndtw-1 in midair; there was a threshing beat of crippled wings, \expndtw2 and the monster had torn dear and was soaring upward \expndtw-2 to mingle and vanish among the stars. Its conqueror stag\-\expndtw-4 gered dizzily, sword poised, legs wide-braced, staring up\-\expndtw-5 ward stupidly, amazed at victory but ready to lake up again \expndtw-1 the ghastly battle.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sb278\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 An instant later Conan approached the altar, panting, \expndtw-2 dripping blood at every step. His massive chest heaved, glistening with perspiration. Blood ran down his arras in \expndtw-1 streams from his neck and shoulders. As he touched her, \expndtw2 the spell on the giri was broken and she scrambled up \expndtw-3 and slid from the altar, recoiling from his hand. He leaned against the stone, looking down at her, where she cowered at his feet.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sb48\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 'Men saw you ride out of the village,' he said. 'I fol\-\expndtw-3 lowed as soon as I could and picked up your track, though \expndtw1 it was no easy task following it by torchlight. I tracked \expndtw-2 you to the place where your horse threw you, and though \expndtw0 the torches were exhausted by then and I could not find the prints of your bare feet on the sward, I felt sure you \expndtw-2 had descended into the valley. My men would not follow \expndtw-1 me, so I came alone on foot. What vale of devils is this? \expndtw0 What was that thing?'\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 'A god,' she whispered. 'The black people spoke of it -\expndtw-6 a god from far away and long ago! *\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri77\sb38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 *A devil from the Outer Dark,\super 1\nosupersub  he granted. 'Oh, they're nothing uncommon. They lurk as thick as fleas outside the \expndtw3 belt of light which surround this world. I've heard the \expndtw-3 wise men of Zamora talk of them. Some find their way to \expndtw-1 earth, but when they do they have to take on some earthly \expndtw4 form and flesh of some sort. A man like myself, with a \expndtw-2 sword, is a match for any amount of fangs and talons, in\-fernal or terrestrial. Come; my men await roe beyond the \expndtw-13 ridge of the valley.*\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri67\sb221\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 She crouched motionless, unable to find words, while \expndtw4 he frowned down at her. Then she spoke: 'I ran away \expndtw-2 from you. I planned to dupe you. I was not going to keep my promise to you; I was yours by the bargain we made, \expndtw-1 but I would have escaped from you if I could. Punish me \expndtw-14 as you will.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri48\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw3 He shook the sweat and blood from his locks, and \expndtw-9 sheathed his sword.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw4 'Get up,' he grunted. 'It was a foul bargain I made. I \expndtw-2 do not regret that black dog Bajujh, but you are no wench to be bought and sold. The ways of men vary in different \expndtw4 lands, but a man need not be a swine wherever he is. \expndtw2 After I thought awhile, I saw that to hold you to your bargain would be the same as if I had forced you. Be\-\expndtw0 sides, you are not tough enough for this land. You are a \expndtw-2 child of cities and books and civilized ways - which isn't your fault, but you'd die quickly following the \lang1049\'d8\'e5\lang1058  I thrive \expndtw1 on. A dead woman would be no good to me. I will take \expndtw0 you to the Stygian borders. The Stygians will send you \expndtw-4 hometoOphir.*\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw3 She stared up at him as if she had not heard aright. \expndtw0 'Home?' she repeated mechanically. 'Home? Ophir? My people? Cities, towers, peace, my \i home? \i0 Suddenly tears welled into her eyes, and sinking to her knees, she em\-\expndtw-5 braced his knees in her arms.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw3 'Crom, girl,' grunted Conan, embarrassed. TJon't do \expndtw-1 that. You'd think I was doing you a favor by kicking you out of this country. Haven't I explained that you're not the \expndtw2 proper woman for the war chief of the Bamulas?' \par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa60\sl360\slmult1\qc\cf0\expndtw0\b\i\fs28 THE CASTLE OF TERROR\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri125\sb240\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\b0\fs24 Before he can bring off his plans for building a black \expndtw2 empire with himself at its head, Conan is thwarted \expndtw-2 by a succession of natural catastrophes and the in\-\expndtw0 trigues of his enemies among the Bamules, many of \expndtw-1 whom resent the rise to power in their tribe of a for\-\expndtw-2 eigner. Forced to flee, he heads north through the \expndtw-3 equatorial jungle and across the grassy veldt toward \expndtw0 the semicivilized kingdom of Rush.\cf0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb384\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\i 1.   Burning Eyes\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb106\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 Beyond the trackless deserts of Stygia lay the vast grass\-\expndtw1 lands of Kush. For over a hundred leagues, there was \expndtw4 naught but endless stretches of thick grass. Here and \expndtw-1 there a solitary tree rose to break the gently rolling mon\-\expndtw0 otony of the veldt: spiny acacias, sword-leaved dragon \expndtw-2 trees, emerald-spired lobelias, and thick-fingered, poison\-\expndtw2 ous spurges. Now and then a rare stream cut a shallow \expndtw-3 dell across the prairie, giving rise to a narrow gallery forest \expndtw1 along its banks. Herds of zebra, antelope, buffalo, and \expndtw0 other denizens of the savanna drifted athwart the veldt, \expndtw-3 grazing as they went.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sb48\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 The grasses whispered and nodded in the wandering \expndtw-5 winds beneath skies of deep cobalt in which a fierce tropical \expndtw0 sun blazed blindingly. Now and then clouds boiled up; a \expndtw1 brief thunderstorm roared and blazed with catastrophic \expndtw0 fury, only to die and clear as quickly as it had arisen.\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri67\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw3 Across this limitless waste, as the day died, a lone, \expndtw0 silent figure trudged. It was a young giant, strongly built, \expndtw-2 with gliding thews that swelled under a sun-bronzed hide \expndtw-3 scored with the white traces of old wounds. Deep of chest and broad of shoulder and long of limb was he; his scanty costume of loinclout and sandals revealed his magnificent physique. His chest, shoulders, and back were burnt nearly \expndtw-5 as black as the natives of this land.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 The tangled locks of an unkempt mane of coarse black \expndtw-4 hair framed a grim, impassive face. Beneath scowling black \expndtw-3 brows, fierce eyes of burning blue roamed restlessly from \expndtw0 side to side as he marched with a limber, tireless stride \expndtw-1 across the level lands. His wary gaze pierced the thick, \expndtw0 shadowy grasses on either side, reddened by the angry \expndtw-2 crimson of sunset. Soon night would come swiftly across \expndtw-3 Kush; under the gloom of its world-shadowing wings, dan\-\expndtw-4 ger and death would prowl the waste.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw4 Yet the lone traveler, Conan of Cunmeria, was not \expndtw1 afraid. A barbarian of barbarians, bred on the bleak hills \expndtw-1 of distant Cunmeria, the iron endurance and fierce vitality \expndtw-3 of the wild were his, granting him survival where civilized \expndtw1 men, though more learned, more courteous, and more \expndtw-2 sophisticated \ul than\ulnone  he, would miserably have perished. Al\-\expndtw1 though the wanderer had gone afoot for eight days, with \expndtw-2 no food save the game he had slain with the great Bamula \expndtw0 hunting bow slung across his back, the mighty barbarian had nowhere nearly approached the limits of his strength.\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw3 Long had Conan been accustomed to the Spartan life \expndtw2 of the wilderness. Although he had tasted the languid \expndtw-2 luxuries of civilized life in half the walled, glittering cities \expndtw0 of the world, he missed them not. He plodded on toward \expndtw-2 the distant horizon, now obscured by a murky purple haze.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Behind him \i lay \i0 the dense jungles of the black lands \expndtw-1 beyond Kush, where fantastic orchids blazed amid foliage \expndtw-2 of somber dark green, where fierce black tribes hacked a \expndtw2 precarious living out of the smothering bush, and where \expndtw-2 the silence of the dank, shadowed jungle pathways was broken only by the coughing snarl of the hunting leopard, \expndtw-1 the grunt of the wild pig, the brassy trumpeting of the \expndtw2 elephant, or the sudden scream of an angered ape. For \expndtw3 over a year, Conan had dwelt there as the war chief of \expndtw1 the powerful Bamula tribe. At length the crafty black \expndtw-3 priests, jealous of his rise to power and resentful of 'his \expndtw-2 undisguised contempt for their bloodthirsty gods and their \expndtw0 cruel, sanguinary rites, had poisoned the minds of the Bamula warriors against their white-skinned leader.\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-4 It had come about in this wise. A time of long, unbroken \expndtw5 drought had come upon the tribes of the jungle. With \expndtw-1 the shrinking of the rivers and the drying up of the water \expndtw-2 holes had come red, roaring war, as the ebon tribes locked \expndtw3 in desperate battie to secure the few remaining sources \expndtw1 of the precious fluid. Villages went up in flame; whole clans had been slaughtered and left to rot. Then., in the \expndtw0 wake of drought, famine, and war, had come plague to \expndtw-3 sweep the land.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 The malicious tongues of the cunning priests laid these \expndtw0 terrors to Conan. It was he, they swore, who had brought these disasters upon Bamula. The gods were angry that a \expndtw5 pale-skinned ourjander had usurped the ornate stool of \expndtw0 a long line of Bamula chieftains. Conan, they persisted, must be flayed and slain with a thousand ingenious tor\-\expndtw-2 ments upon the black altars of the devil-gods of the jungle, or all the people would perish.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri134\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Not relishing so grim a fate, Conan had made a swift, \expndtw-1 devastating reply. A thrust through the body with his great northern broadsword had finished the high priest. Then he had toppled the bloodstained wooden idol of the Bamula \expndtw3 deity upon the other shamans and fled into the darkness \expndtw4 of the surrounding jungle. He had groped his way for \expndtw-2 many weary leagues northward, until he reached the region \expndtw2 where the crowding forest thinned out and gave way to \expndtw1 the open grasslands. Now he meant to cross the savanna \expndtw-1 on foot to reach the kingdom of Rush, where his barbaric strength and the weight of his sword might find him em\-\expndtw5 ployment in the service of the dusky monarchs of that \expndtw-9 ancient land.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri77\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 Suddenly his thoughts were snatched away from con\-\expndtw-2 templation of the past by a thrill of danger. Some primal \expndtw2 instinct of survival alerted him to the presence of peril. \expndtw-1 He halted and stared about him through the long shadows \expndtw2 cast by the setting sun. As the haits of his nape bristled with the touch of unseen menace, the giant barbarian \expndtw3 searched the air with sensitive nostrils and probed the \expndtw1 gloom with smoldering eyes. Although he could neither \expndtw4 see nor smell anything, the mysterious sense of danger \expndtw3 of the wilderness-bred told him that peril was near. He \expndtw0 felt the feathery touch of invisible eyes and he whirled to \expndtw2 glimpse a pair of large orbs, glowing in the gloom.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Almost in the same instant, the blazing eyes vanished. \expndtw2 So short had been his glimpse and so utter the disap\-\expndtw6 pearance that he was tempted to shrug off the sight as \expndtw0 a product of his imagination. He turned and went forward \expndtw1 again, but now he was on the alert. As he continued his \expndtw-4 journey, flaming eyes opened again amid the thick shadows \expndtw1 of dense grasses, to follow his silent progress. Tawny, \expndtw4 sinuous forms glided after him on soundless feet. The \expndtw1 lions of Kush were on his track, lusting for hot blood and \expndtw-5 fresh flesh.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb317\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\i 2.    The Circle of Death\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw6 An hour later, night had fallen over the savanna, save \expndtw-4 for a narrow band of sunset glow along the western horizon, \expndtw-2 against which an occasional small, gnarled tree of the veldt \expndtw3 stood up in biack silhouette. And Conan had almost \expndtw-2 reached the limits of his endurance. Thrice lionesses had \expndtw0 rushed upon him out of the shadows to right or to left. \expndtw-2 Thrice he had driven diem ofl with the flying death of his arrows. Although it was hard to shoo: straight in the gath\-ering dark, an explosive snarl from the charging cats had \expndtw-4 thrice told him of hits, although he had no way of knowing \expndtw-1 whether he had slain or only wounded the deadly preda\-\expndtw-2 tors.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sb38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 But now his quiver was empty, and he knew it was only \expndtw-1 a matter of time before the silent marauders pulled him \expndtw-2 down. There were eight or ten lions on his track now, and even the grim barbarian felt a pang of despair. Even if his \expndtw0 mighty sword accounted for one or two of the attackers, \expndtw-4 the rest would tear him to gory pieces before he could slash \expndtw-1 or thrust again. Conan had encountered lions before and \expndtw-3 knew their enormous strength, which enabled them to pick up and drag a whole zebra as easily as a cat does a mouse. Although Conan was one of the strongest men of his time, \expndtw0 once a lion got its claws and teeth into him that strength \expndtw1 would be no more effective than drat of a small child.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 Conan ran on. He had been running now for the better \expndtw6 part of an hour, with a long, loping stride that ate up \expndtw-1 the leagues. At first he had run effortlessly, but now the grueling exertions of his flight through the black jungles and his eight-day trek across the plain began to take their \expndtw-3 toll. His eyes blurred; the muscles of his legs ached. Every \expndtw-4 beat of his bursting heart seemed to drain away the strength \expndtw-3 remaining in his giant form.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 He prayed to his savage gods for the moon to emerge \expndtw-2 from the dense, stormy clouds diat veiled most of the sky. \expndtw0 He prayed for a hillock or a tree to break the gently roll\-\expndtw-3 ing flatness of the plain, or even a boulder against which he \expndtw2 could set his back to make a last stand against the pride. \par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri67\sl360\slmult1\qj\expndtw3 But the gods heard not. The only trees in this region \expndtw0 were dwarfish, thorny growdis, which rose to a height of six or eight feet and then spread their branches out hori\-\expndtw2 zontally in a mushroom shape. If he managed to climb \expndtw3 such a tree despite the thorns., it would be easy for die \expndtw-1 first lion to teach the base to spring upon him from below and bear him to the ground in one leap. The only hillocks \expndtw0 were termite nests, some rising several feet in height but \expndtw2 too small for purposes of defense. There was nothing to \expndtw-6 do but run on.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri48\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 To lighten himself, he had cast aside the great hunting \expndtw-3 bow when he had spent his last shaft, although it wrenched \expndtw-1 his heart to throw away the splendid weapon. Quiver and \expndtw-2 straps soon followed. He was now stripped to a mere loin-\expndtw0 clout of leopard skin, the high-laced sandals that clad his \expndtw-1 feet, his goatskin water bag, and the heavy broadsword, which he now carried scabbarded in one fist. To part with these would mean surrendering his last hope.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 The h'ons were now almost at his heels. He could smell \expndtw0 the strong reek of their lithe bodies and hear their panting \expndtw-1 breath. Any moment, now, they would close in upon him, \expndtw-4 and he would be making \i bis \i0 last furious fight for \lang1049\'d8\'e5\lang1058  before they pulled him down.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 He expected his pursuers to follow their age-old tactics. \expndtw-2 The oldest male - the chief of the pride \emdash  would follow \expndtw3 directly behind him, with the younger males on either \expndtw0 flank. The swifter lionesses would range ahead on either \expndtw1 side in a crescent formation until they were far enough ahead of him to close the circle and trap him. Then they \expndtw0 would all rash in upon him at once, making any effective \expndtw-4 defense impossible.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 Suddenly, the land was flooded with light. The round\sub a \expndtw-1\nosupersub silver eye of the rising moon glared down upon the broad \expndtw6 plains, bathing the racing figure of the giant barbarian \expndtw-1 with her gaze and drawing lines of pale silver fire along the rippling sinews of the lions as they loped at his beds, \expndtw-2 washing their short, silken fur with her ghostly radiance. Conan's wary eye caught the moonfire on rippling fur \expndtw-1 ahead to his left, and he knew that the encirclement was \expndtw-3 nearly complete. As he braced himself to meet the charge, \expndtw-1 however, he was astounded to see the same h'oness veer \expndtw0 off and halt. In two strides he was past her. As he went, \expndtw-4 he saw that the young h'oness on his right had also stopped \expndtw-5 short. She squatted motionless on the grass with tail twitch\-\expndtw-2 ing and lashing. A curious sound, half roar and half wail, \expndtw-4 came from her fanged jaws.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 Conan dared to slow his run and glance back. To his \expndtw-2 utter astonishment, he saw that the entire pride had halted \expndtw1 as if at some invisible barrier, They stood in a snarling \expndtw-5 line with fangs gleaming like silver in the moonlight. Earth-\expndtw-2 shaking roars of baffled rage came from their throats.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 Conan's eyes narrowed thoughtfully, and his scowling \expndtw0 brows knotted in puzzlement. What had halted the pride \expndtw2 at the very moment when they had made sure of their \expndtw1 prey? What unseen force had annulled the fury of the \expndtw3 chase? He stood for a moment facing them, sword in \expndtw0 hand, wondering if they would resume their charge. But \expndtw-1 the h'ons stayed where they were, growling and roaring \expndtw-3 from foam-dripping jaws.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 Then Conan observed a curious thing. The place where \expndtw-3 the h'ons had halted seemed to mark a line of demarcation \expndtw3 across the plain. On the further side grew thick, longj \expndtw-3 lush grasses. At the invisible boundary, however, the grass \expndtw-4 became thin, stubbly, and ill-nourished, with broad patches of bare earth. Although Conan could not clearly distinguish colors by moonlight alone, it seemed to him that the grasses \expndtw-2 on the hither side of the line lacked the normal green color \expndtw5 of growing things. Instead, the grasses around his feet \expndtw-1 seemed dry and gray, as if leached of ah\super 1\nosupersub  vitality.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri125\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 To either side, in the bright moonlight, he could see the \expndtw-4 region of dead grasses curve away into the distance, as if he \expndtw-6 stood alone in a vast circle of death.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb336\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2\i 3.    The Black Citadel\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri86\sb125\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2 Although he still ached with weariness, the brief pause \expndtw1 had given Conan the strength to continue his progress. \expndtw-2 Since he did not know the nature of the invisible line that had halted the h'ons., he could not tell how long this mys\-\expndtw-1 terious influence would continue to hold them at bay. \expndtw1 Therefore he preferred to put as much distance between \expndtw-4 the pride and himself as possible.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 Soon he saw a dark mass take form out of the dimness \expndtw-2 ahead of him. He went forward even more warily than be\-\expndtw-4 fore, sword in hand and eyes searchingthehazy immensities \expndtw0 of this domain. The moonlight was still brilliant, but its \expndtw-4 radiance became obscure with distance as if veiled by some \expndtw2 thickening haze. So, at first, Conan could make nothing \expndtw0 of the black, featureless mass that lifted out of the plain \expndtw-1 before him, save for its size and its stillness. Like some \expndtw-5 colossal Idol of primitive devil worship, hewn from a moun\-\expndtw-3 tain of black stone by some unknown being in time's dawn, \expndtw3 the dark mass squatted motionless amid the dead gray \expndtw-12 grass.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 As Conan came nearer, details emerged from the dark, \expndtw-1 featureless blur. He saw that it was a tremendous edifice, \expndtw-2 which lay partly in ruins on the plains of Kush - a colossal \expndtw0 structure erected by unknown hands for some nameless \expndtw-2 purpose. It looked like a castle or fortress of some sort, but \expndtw0 of an architectural type that Conan had never seen. Made \expndtw-2 of dense black stone, it rose in a complex fagade of pillars \expndtw4 and terraces and battlements, whose alignment seemed \expndtw-4 oddly awry. It baffled the view. The eye followed mind-\expndtw-2 twisting curves that seemed subtly wrong, weirdly dis\-\expndtw-4 torted. The huge structure gave the impression of \lang1049\'ff\lang1058  chaotic \expndtw-1 lack of order, as if its builders had not been quite sane.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 Conan wrenched his gaze from the vertiginous curves \expndtw-4 of this misshapen mass of masonry, merely to look upon \expndtw-6 which made him dizzy. He thought he could at last perceive \expndtw1 why the beasts of the veldt avoided this crumbling pile, \expndtw-1 It somehow exuded an aura of menace and horror. Per\-\expndtw1 haps, during the millennia that the black citadel had \expndtw-1 squatted on the plains, the animals had come to dread it \expndtw-3 and to avoid its shadowy precincts, until such habits of \expndtw-4 avoidance were now instinctive.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-4 The moon dimmed suddenly as high-piled storm clouds \expndtw-5 again darkened her ageless face. Distant thunder grumbled, \expndtw-2 and Conan's searching gaze caught the sulphurous flicker \expndtw-1 of lightning among me boiling masses of cloud. One of \expndtw0 those quick, tempestuous thunderstorms of the savanna \expndtw-4 was about to break.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 Conan hesitated. On the one hand, curiosity and a de\-\expndtw-1 sire for shelter from the coming storm drew him to the crumbled stronghold. On the other, his barbarian's mind held a deep-rooted aversion to the supernatural. Toward earthly, mortal dangers he was fearless to the point of \expndtw1 rashness, but otherworldly perils could send the tendrils \expndtw-2 of panic quivering along his nerves. And something about \expndtw1 this mysterious structure hinted at the supernatural. He \expndtw-4 could feel its menace in the deepest layers of his conscious\-ness.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2 A louder rumble of thunder decided him. Taking an \expndtw-2 iron grip on his nerves, he strode confidently into the dark \expndtw0 portal, naked steel in hand, and vanished widiin. \par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb346\sl360\slmult1\qj\expndtw-3\i 4.    The Serpent Men\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri77\sb106\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 Conan prowled the length of the high-vaulted hall, find\-ing nothing that lived. Dust and dead leaves littered the \expndtw-2 black pave. Moldering rubbish was heaped in the comers \expndtw1 and around the bases of towering stone columns. How\-\expndtw-3 ever old this pile of masonry was, evidently no living thing \expndtw-4 had dwelt therein for centuries.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 The hall, revealed by another brief appearance of the \expndtw-2 moon, was two stories high. A ballustradcd balcony ran \expndtw-1 around the second floor. Curious to probe deeper into the \expndtw-3 mystery of this enigmatic structure which squatted here on \expndtw1 the plain many leagues from any other stone building, \expndtw2 Conan roamed the corridors, which wound as sinuously \expndtw-1 as a serpent's track. He poked into dusty chambers whose \expndtw0 original purpose he could not even guess.\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 The castle was of staggering size, even to one who had \expndtw-2 seen the temple of the spider-god at Yezud in Zamora and \expndtw1 the palace of King Yildiz at Aghrapur in Turan. A good part of it - one whole wing, in fact - had fallen into a \expndtw-2 featureless mass of tumbled black blocks, but the part that \expndtw-1 remained more or less intact was still the largest building \expndtw0 that Conan had seen. Its antiquity was beyond guessing. \expndtw-1 The black onyx of which it was wrought was unlike any \expndtw4 stone that Conan had seen in this part of the world. It \expndtw-1 must have been brought across immense distances - why, \expndtw-4 Conan could not imagine.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Some features of the bizarre architecture of the struc\-\expndtw-3 ture reminded Conan of ancient tombs in accursed Zamora. \expndtw0 Others suggested forbidden temples that he had glimpsed in far Hyrkania during his mercenary service with the Turanians. But whether the black castle had been erected \expndtw-2 primarily as a tomb, a fortress, a palace, or a temple, or \expndtw0 some combination of these, he could not tell.\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 Then, too, there was a disturbing alienage about the \expndtw-6 castle that made him obscurely uneasy. Even as the facades \expndtw-5 seemed to have been built according to the canons of some \expndtw-4 alien geometry, so the interior contained baffling features. \expndtw2 The steps of the stairways, for example, were much \expndtw-3 broader and shallower than was required for human feet. \expndtw-4 The doorways were too tall and too narrow, so that Conan \expndtw-2 had to turn sideways to get through them.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-4 The walls were sculptured in low relief with coiling, geometrical arabesques of baffling, hypnotic complexity. \expndtw0 Conan found that he had to wrench his gaze away from \expndtw-3 the sculptured walls by force of will, lest his mind be en\-trapped and held by the cryptic symbols formed by the writhing lines.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 In fact, everything about this strange, baffling enigma \expndtw-2 in stone reminded Conan of serpents - the winding corn-\expndtw-3 dors, the writhing decoration, and even, he thought, a faint \expndtw-4 trace of a musky, ophidian odor.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 Conan halted, brows knotted. Could this unknown ruin \expndtw-2 have been raised by the serpent folk of ancient Valusia? \expndtw-1 The day of that pre-human people lay an unthinkable in\-\expndtw-2 terval in the past, before the dawn of man himself, in the dim mists of time when giant reptiles ruled the earth. Or \expndtw-3 ever the Seven Empires arose in the days before the Cata\-clysm \i - \i0 even before Atlantis arose from the depths of the \expndtw2 Western Ocean - the serpent people had reigned. They \expndtw-1 had vanished long before the coming of man - but not \expndtw-2 entirely.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri106\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Around the campfires in the bleak hills of Cimmeria \expndtw-4 and again in the marbled courts of the temples of Nemedia, \expndtw2 Conan had heard the legend of Kull, the Atiantean king \expndtw-1 of Valusia. The snake people had survived here and there \expndtw2 by means of their magic, which enabled them to appear \expndtw-3 to others as ordinary human beings. But Kull had stumbled \expndtw-1 upon their secret and had purged his realm clean \i of \i0 their \expndtw-4 taint, wiping them out with fire and sword.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri86\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Still, might not the black castle, with its alien archi\-\expndtw-2 tecture, be a relic of that remote era, when men contended \expndtw-1 for the rule of the planet with these reptilian survivors of \expndtw-12 lost ages?\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb317\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 5.    \i Whispering Shadows\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri58\sb125\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw5 The first thunderstorm missed the black castle. There \expndtw2 was a brief patter of raindrops on the crumbling stone\-\expndtw-3 work and a trickle of water through holes in the roof. Then \expndtw0 the lighmmg and thunder diminished as the storm passed \expndtw-1 off to westward, leaving the moon to shine unobstructed once more through die gaps in the stone. But other storms \expndtw0 followed, muttering and flickering out of the east.\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2 Conan slept uneasily in a comer of the balcony above \expndtw-1 the great hall, tossing and turning like some wary animal \expndtw2 that dimly senses the approach of danger. Caution had \expndtw-2 made him suspicious of sleeping in the hall before the \expndtw-1 wide-open doors. Even though the circle of death seemed \expndtw-3 to bar the denizens of the plains, he did not trust the unseen force that held the beasts at bay.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 A dozen times he started awake, clutching at his sword \expndtw-2 and probing the soft shadows with his eyes, searching for \expndtw-4 whatever had aroused him. A dozen times he found nothing \expndtw-3 in the gloomy vastness of the ancient wreck. Each time he \expndtw-5 composed himself for slumber again, however, dim shadows \expndtw-3 clustered around him, and he half-heard whispering voices.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 Growling a weary curse to his barbaric gods, the Cim\-\expndtw-2 merian damned all shadows and echoes to the eleven scar\-\expndtw-1 let Hells of his mythology and threw himself down again, \expndtw2 striving to slumber. At length he fell into a deep sleep. \expndtw-1 And in that sleep there came upon him a strange dream,\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 It seemed that, although his body slept, his spirit waked \expndtw2 and was watchful. To the immaterial eyes of his \i ka, \i0 as \expndtw-2 the Stygians called it, the gloomy balcony was filled with \expndtw-3\i a \i0 dim glow of blood-hued light from some unseen source. \expndtw1 This was neither the silvery sheen of the moon, which \expndtw4 cast slanting beams into the hall through gaps in the \expndtw-2 stone, nor the pallid flicker of distant lightning. By this \expndtw-1 sanguine radiance, Conan's spirit could see drifting sha\-\expndtw-6 dows, which flitted like cloudy bats among the black marble columns \emdash  shadows with glaring eyes filled with mindless \expndtw-2 hunger \i - \i0 shadows that whispered in an all but inaudible \expndtw-3 cacophony of mocking laughter and bestial cries.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 Conan's spirit somehow knew that these whispering \expndtw-3 shadows were the ghosts of thousands of sentient beings, \expndtw-1 who had died within this ancient structure. How he knew \expndtw2 this, he could not say, but to his \i ka \i0 it was a plain fact. \expndtw1 The unknown people who had raised this enormous ruin - whether the serpent men of Valusian legend or some other forgotten race - had drenched the marble altars of the black castle with the blood of thousands, The ghosts \expndtw-2 of their victims were chained forever to this castle of ter\-ror. Perhaps they were held earthbound by some powerful spell of prehuman sorcery. Perhaps it was the same spell that kept out the beasts of the veldt.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri58\sb38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 But this was not all. The ghosts of the black castle \expndtw1 hungered for the blood of the living - for the blood of \expndtw-1 Conan.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri106\sb38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 His exhausted body lay chained in ensorcelled slumber \expndtw4 while shadowy phantoms flitted about him, tearing at \expndtw0 him with impalpable fingers. But a spirit cannot harm a \expndtw-2 living being unless it first manifests itself on the physical plane and assumes material form. These gibbering shadow \expndtw1 hordes were weak. Not for years had a man defied the \expndtw-1 ancient curse to set foot within the black castle, enabling \expndtw3 them to feed. Enfeebled by long starvation, they could \expndtw-3 no longer easHy materialize into a shambling horde of \expndtw-9 ghoul-things.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri77\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 Somehow, the spirit of the dreaming Conan knew this. \expndtw1 While his body slept on, his \i ka \i0 observed movements on \expndtw4 the astral plane and watched the vampiric shadows as \expndtw-1 they beat insubstantial wings about his sleeping head and \expndtw1 slashed with impalpable claws at his pulsing throat. But \expndtw0 for all their voiceless frenzy, they could harm him not, \expndtw-5 Bound by the spell, he slept on.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri58\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw4 After an indefinite time, a change took place in the \expndtw0 ruddy luminance of the astral plane. The specters were \expndtw-3 clustering together into a shapeless mass of thickening sha\-\expndtw-4 dows. Mindless dead things though theywere, hunger drove \expndtw1 them into an uncanny affiance. Each ghost possessed a \expndtw-1 small store of that vital energy that went toward bodily materialization. Now each phantom mingled its sum sup\-\expndtw-3 ply with that of its shadowy brethren.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Gradually, a terrible shape, fed by the life force of ten \expndtw2 thousand ghosts, began to materialize. In the dim gloom \expndtw1 of the black marble balcony, it slowly formed out of a \expndtw-4 swirling cloud of shadowy particles.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 And Conan slept on.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb336\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw3\i 6.    The Hundred Heads\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb115\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Thunder crashed deafeningly; lightning blazed with sul\-\expndtw-2 phurous fires above the darkened plain, whence the moon\-\expndtw0 light had fled again. The thick-pHed storm clouds burst, soaking the grassy swales with a torrential downpour.\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw3 The Stygian slave raiders had ridden all night, press\-\expndtw7 ing southward toward the forests beyond Kush. Their \expndtw-3 expedition had thus far been fruitless; not one black of the \expndtw-1 nomadic hunting and herding tribes of the savanna had \expndtw1 fallen into their hands. Whether war or pestilence had \expndtw-1 swept the land bare of humankind, or whether the tribes\-\expndtw-4 men, warned of the coming of the slavers, had fled beyond \expndtw-2 reach, they did not know.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 In any case, it seemed that they would do better among \expndtw2 the lush jungles of the South. The forest Negroes dwelt \expndtw-1 in permanent villages, which the slavers could surround \expndtw3 and take by surprise with a quick dawn rush, catching \expndtw0 the inhabitants like fish in a net. Villagers too old, too \expndtw4 young, or too sickly to endure the trek back to Stygia \expndtw-2 they would slay out of hand. Then they would drive the \expndtw0 remaining wretches, fettered together to form a human chain, northward.\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sb38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 There were forty Stygians, well-mounted warriors in \expndtw-1 helms and chain-mail hauberks. They were tall, swarthy, hawk-faced men, powerfully muscled. They were hard\-ened marauders ~ tough, shrewd, fearless, and merciless, \expndtw1 with no more compunction about killing a non-Stygian \expndtw-2 than most men have about slapping a gnat.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 Now the first downpour of the storm swept their col\-\expndtw-3 umn. Winds whipped their woollen cloaks and linen robes \expndtw0 and blew their horses' manes into their faces. The almost \expndtw-2 continuous blaze of lightning dazzled them.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2 Their leader sighted the black castle, looming above \expndtw-1 the grasslands, for the blazing lightning made it visible in \expndtw0 the rain-veiled dark. He shouted a guttural command and drove his spurs into the ribs of his big black mare. The \expndtw3 others spurred after him and rode up to the frowning \expndtw0 bastions with a clatter of hoofs, a creaking of leather, and a jingle of mail- In the blur of rain and night, the abnor\-\expndtw-2 mality of the facade was not visible, and the Stygians were \expndtw1 eager to get under shelter before they were soaked. \par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri86\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\expndtw-4 They came stamping in, cursing and bellowing and shak\-\expndtw2 ing the water from their cloaks. In a trice, the gloomy \expndtw-2 silence of the ruin was broken with a clamor of noise. Brushwood and dead leaves were gathered; flint and steel \expndtw-1 were struck. Soon a smoking, sputtering fire leaped up in the midst of the cracked marble floor, to paint the sculp\-\expndtw-5 tured walls with rich orange.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri58\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 The men flung down their saddlebags, stripped oft wet \expndtw4 burnooses, and spread them to dry. They struggled out \expndtw5 of their coats of mail and set to rubbing the moisture \expndtw0 from them with oily rags. They opened their saddlebags \expndtw-3 and sank strong white teeth into round loaves of hard, stale \expndtw-11 bread.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri48\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 Outside, the storm bellowed and flashed. Streams of \expndtw-2 rainwater, like little waterfalls, poured through gaps in the \expndtw-3 masonry. But the Stygians heeded them not.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 On the balcony above, Conan stood silently, awake but \expndtw-2 trembling with shudders mat wracked his powerful body. \expndtw0 With the cloudburst, the spell that held him captive had \expndtw-1 broken. Starting up, he glared about for the shadowy con\-\expndtw-2 clave of ghosts that he had seen form in his dream. When \expndtw-3 the lightning flashed, he thought he glimpsed a dark, amor\-\expndtw1 phous form at the far end of the balcony, but he did not \expndtw-4 care to go closer to investigate.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 While he pondered the problem of how to quit the bal\-\expndtw-1 cony without coming in-reach of the Thing, the Stygians \expndtw0 came stamping and roaring in. They were hardly an im\-\expndtw-2 provement on the ghosts. Given half a chance, they would be delighted to capture him for their slave gang. For all his \expndtw0 immense strength and skill at arms, Conan knew that no \expndtw-2 man can fight forty well-armed foes at once. Unless he \expndtw1 instantly cut his way out and escaped, they would bring \expndtw0 him down. He faced either a swift death or a bitter life of  \expndtw-2 groaning drudgery fa a Stygian slave pen. He was not sure \expndtw-1 which he preferred.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 If the Stygians distracted Oman's attention from the \expndtw-1 phantoms, they likewise distracted the attention of the \expndtw0 phantoms from Conan. In their mindless hunger, the \expndtw-3 shadow-things ignored the Cimmerian in favor of the forty Stygians encamped below. Here was living flesh and vita! \expndtw1 force enough to glut their phantasmal lusts thrice over. \expndtw0 Like autumn leaves, they drifted over the balustrade and \expndtw-2 down from the balcony into the hall below.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sb278\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 The Stygians sprawled around their fire, passing a bottle \expndtw0 of wine from hand to hand and talking in their guttural \expndtw-5 tongue. Although Conan knew only a few words of Stygian, \expndtw2 from the intonations and gestures he could follow the \expndtw-1 course of the argument. The leader - a clean-shaven giant, \expndtw-2 as tall as the Cimmerian - swore that he would not venture \expndtw0 into the downpour on such a night. They would await the dawn in this crumbling ruin. At least, the roof seemed to \expndtw-2 be still sound in places, and a man could lie here out of the \expndtw1 drip.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri48\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2 When several more bottles had been emptied., the \expndtw0 Stygians, now warm and dry, composed themselves for \expndtw-1 sleep. The fire burned low, for the brushwood with which \expndtw-3 they fed it could not long sustain a strong blaze. The leader \expndtw-1 pointed to one of his men and spoke a harsh sentence. The \expndtw1 man protested, but after some argument he heaved him\-\expndtw0 self up with a groan and pulled on his coat of mail. He, \expndtw-1 Conan realized, had been chosen to stand the first watch.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri125\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 Presently, with sword in hand and shield on arm, the \expndtw1 sentry was standing in the shadows at the margin of the \expndtw-2 light of the dying fire. From time to time he walked slowly \expndtw4 up and down the length of the hall, pausing to peer into \expndtw-4 the winding corridors or out through the front doors, where \expndtw-5 the storm was in retreat.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri67\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2 While the sentry stood in the main doorway with his \expndtw0 back to his comrades, a grim shape formed among the \expndtw-1 snoring band of slavers. It grew slowly out of wavering clouds of insubstantial shadows. The compound creature \expndtw-3 that gradually took shape was made up of the vital force of \expndtw1 thousands of dead beings. It became a ghastly form - a \expndtw-1 huge bulk that sprouted countless malformed limbs and \expndtw-2 appendages. A dozen squat legs supported its monstrous weight. From its top, like grisly fruit, sprouted scores of \expndtw-1 heads: some lifelike, with shaggy hair and brows; others \expndtw-3 mere lumps in which eyes, ears, mouths., and nostrils were \expndtw-4 arranged at random.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri58\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 The sight of the hundred-headed monster in that dimly firelit hall was enough to freeze the blood of the stoutest \expndtw-4 with terror. Conan felt his nape hairs rise and his skin crawl \expndtw-1 with revulsion as he stared down upon the scene.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 The thing lurched across the floor. Leaning unsteadily \expndtw-2 down, it clutched one of the Stygians with half a dozen \expndtw-4 grasping claws. As the man awoke with a scream, the night\-\expndtw0 mare Thing tore its victim apart, spattering his sleeping \expndtw-2 comrades with gory, dripping fragments of the man.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb355\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 7.    \i Flight from Nightmare\cf0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb96\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw6 In an instant, the Stygians were on their feet. Hard\-\expndtw-1 bitten ravagers though they were, the sight was frightful \expndtw2 enough to wring yells of terror from some. Wheeling at \expndtw3 the first scream, the sentry rushed back into the hall to \expndtw-2 hack at the monster with his sword. Bellowing commands, \expndtw4 the leader snatched up the nearest weapon and fell to. \expndtw0 The rest, although unarmored, disheveled, and confused, \expndtw2 seized sword and spear to defend themselves against the \expndtw4 shape that shambled and slew among them.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 Swords hacked into misshapen thighs; spears plunged \expndtw-3 into the swollen, swaying belly. Clutching hands and amis \expndtw0 were hacked away to thud, jerking and grasping, to the \expndtw-1 floor. But, seeming to feel no pain, the monster snatched \expndtw-2 up man after \lang1049\'f8\'e0\'eb\lang1058 . Some Stygians had their heads twisted \expndtw2 off by strangling hands. Others were seized by the feet and battered to gory remnants against the pillars.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-5 As the Cimmerian watched from above, a dozen Stygians \expndtw1 were battered or torn to death. The ghastly wounds in\-\expndtw-2 flicted on the monster by the weapons of the Stygians in\-\expndtw3 stantly closed up and healed. Severed heads and arms \expndtw-2 were replaced by new members, which sprouted from the bulbous body.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Seeing that the Stygians had no chance against the \expndtw-3 monster, Conan resolved to take his leave while the Thing \expndtw-1 was still occupied with the slavers and before it turned its \expndtw1 attention to him. Thinking it unwise to enter the hall, he \expndtw-1 sought a more direct exit. He climbed out through a win\-dow. This let on to a roof terrace of broken tiles, where a \expndtw1 false step could drop him through a gap in the pavement \expndtw-2 to ground level.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 The rain had slackened to a drizzle. The moon, now \expndtw-2 nearly overhead, showed intermittent beams again. Look\-\expndtw-3 ing down from the parapet that bounded the terrace, Conan \expndtw0 found a place where the exterior carvings., together with \expndtw-2 climbing vines, provided means of descent. With the lithe grace of an ape, he lowered himself hand over hand down \expndtw-3 the weirdly carven facade.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri202\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 Now the moon glazed out in full glory, lighting the \expndtw-2 courtyard below where the Stygians' horses stood tethered, \expndtw-1 moving and whinnying uneasily at the sounds of mortal \expndtw6 combat that came from the great hall. Over the roar of \expndtw-2 battle sounded screams of agony as man after man was torn \expndtw-12 limb from limb.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri134\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Conan dropped, landing lightly on the earth of the \expndtw-2 courtyard. He sprinted for the great black mare that had \expndtw-3 belonged to the leader of the slavers. He would have liked \expndtw-2 to linger to loot the bodies, for he needed their armor and \expndtw3 other supplies. The mail shirt he had worn as Belit's \expndtw0 piratical partner had long since succumbed to wear and \lang1049\expndtw2\'e3\'e0\'ff\lang1058 , and his flight from Bamula had been too hasty to \expndtw-4 allow him to equip himself more completely. But no force \expndtw1 on earth could have drawn him into that hall, where a \expndtw-6 horror of living death still stalked and slew.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri86\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 As the young Cimmerian untethered the horse he had chosen, a screaming figure burst from the entrance and \expndtw-4 came pelting across the courtyard toward him. Conan saw \expndtw-2 that it was the man who had stood the first sentry-go. The \expndtw0 Stygian's helmet and mail shirt had protected him just \expndtw-4 enough to enable him to survive the massacre of his com\-\expndtw-19 rades.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri48\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Conan opened his mouth to speak. There was no love \expndtw-2 lost between him and the Stygian people; nevertheless, if \expndtw0 this Stygian were the only survivor of his party, Conan would have been willing to form a rogues' alliance with \expndtw2 him, however temporary, until they could reach more \expndtw-8 settled country.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 But Conan had no chance to make such a proposal, for \expndtw-3 the experience had driven the burly Stygian mad. His eyes \expndtw2 blazed wildly in the moonlight, and foam dripped from \expndtw-2 his lips. He rushed straight upon Conan, whirling a scimi\-\expndtw1 tar so that the moonlight flashed upon it and shrieking, \expndtw-4 'Back to your hell, \lang1049\'ce\lang1058  demon!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 The primitive survival instinct of the wilderness-bred \expndtw-3 Cimmerian flashed into action without conscious thought. \expndtw-2 By the time the man was within striking distance, Conan's \expndtw1 own sword had cleared its scabbard. Again and again, \expndtw-2 steel clanged against steel, striking sparks. As the wild-\expndtw-3 eyed Stygian swung back for another slash, Conan drove \expndtw-2 his point into the madman's throat. The Stygian gurgled, swayed, and toppled.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 For an instant, Conan leaned on the marc's saddle bow, \expndtw3 panting. The duel had been short but fierce, and the \expndtw-2 Stygian had been no mean antagonist.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 From within the ancient pile of stone, no more cries of \expndtw0 terror rang. There was naught but an ominous silence. \expndtw-2 Then Conan heard slow, heavy, shuffling footsteps. Had \expndtw0 the ogreish thing slaughtered them aJl? Was it dragging \expndtw-2 its misshapen bulk toward the door, to emerge into the \expndtw2 courtyard?\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 Conan did not wait to find out. With trembling fingers \expndtw0 he unlaced the dead man's hauberk and pulled the mail \expndtw-3 shirt off. He also collected the Stygian's helmet and shield, \expndtw-2 the latter made from the hide of one of the great, thick-\expndtw-1 skinned beasts of the veldt. He hastily tied these trophies \expndtw2 to the saddle, vaulted upon the steed, wrenched at the \expndtw-2 reins, and kicked the mare's ribs. He galloped out of the ruined courtyard into the region of withered grass. With \expndtw-1 every stride of the flying hoofs, the castle of ancient evil \expndtw-2 fell behind.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Somewhere beyond the circle of dead grass, perhaps \expndtw0 the hungry lions still prowled. But Conan did not care. \expndtw-2 After the ghostly horrors of the black citadel^ he would \expndtw-3 gladly take his chances with mere lions. \par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa60\sl360\slmult1\qc\cf0\expndtw0\b\i\fs28 THE SNOUT IN THE DARK\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri269\sb250\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\b0\fs24 Continuing his northward trek, now speeded by his \expndtw-5 possession of a horse, Conan at last reaches the semi-\expndtw-1 civilised kingdom of Kush. This is the land to which \expndtw0 the name 'Kush' properly applies, although Conan, \expndtw-4 like other northerners, tends to use the term loosely to \expndtw-2 mean any of the Negro countries south of the deserts of Stygia. Here an opportunity to display his prowess \expndtw-5 at arms soon presents itself.\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb346\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\i 1.\tab The Thing in the Dark\cf0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sb96\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-6 Amboola of Kush awakened slowly, his senses still sluggish \expndtw-3 from the wine he had guzzled at the feast the night before. For a muddled moment, he could not remember where he \expndtw-1 was. The moonlight, streaming through the small barred \expndtw-2 window, high up on one wall, shone on unfamiliar sur\-\expndtw-1 roundings. Then he remembered that he was lying in the upper cell of the prison into which Queen Tananda had \expndtw-10 ihrown him.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 There had, he suspected, been a drug m his wine. While \expndtw-3 he sprawled helplessly, barely conscious, two black giants \expndtw1 of the queen's guard had laid hands upon him and upon \expndtw0 the Lord Aahmes, the queen's cousin, and hustled them away to their cells. The last thing he remembered was a \expndtw-1 brief statement from the queen, like the crack of a whip: \expndtw-2 'So you villains would plot to overthrow me, would you? \expndtw-3 You shall see what befalls traitors!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sb77\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw6 As the giant black warrior moved, a clank of metal \expndtw0 made him aware of fetters on his wrists and ankles, con\expndtw-1  nected by chains to massive iron staples set in the wall. \expndtw-4 He strained his eyes to pierce the fetid gloom around him. \expndtw-2 At least, he thought, he still lived. Even Tananda had to \expndtw-4 think twice about slaying the commander of the Black \expndtw0 Spearmen - the backbone of the army of Kmh and the hero of the lower castes of the kingdom.\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-4 What most puzzled Amboola was the charge of con\-\expndtw-1 spiracy with Aahmes. To be sure, he and the princeling \expndtw-3 had been good friends. They had hunted and guzzled and gambled together, and Aahmes had complained privately to Amboola about the queen, whose cruel heart was as \expndtw-4 cunning and treacherous as her dusky body was desirable. \expndtw-2 But things had never gotten to the point of actual con\-\expndtw-3 spiracy. Aahmes was not the man for that sort of thing \expndtw-4 anyway - a good-natured, easygoing young fellow with no \expndtw-2 interest in politics or power. Some informer, seeking to \expndtw-3 advance his own prospects at the cost of others, must have laid false accusations before the queen.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 Amboola examined his fetters. For all his strength, he \expndtw2 knew he could not break them, nor yet the chains that \expndtw-2 held them. Neither could he hope to pull the staples loose \expndtw-3 from the wall. He knew, because he had overseen their \expndtw-2 installation himself.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-4 He knew what the next step would be. The queen would \expndtw-1 have him and Aahmes tortured, to wring from them the \expndtw-3 details of their conspiracy and the names of their fellow \expndtw-2 plotters. For all his barbaric courage, Amboola quailed at \expndtw-1 the prospect. Perhaps his best hope would lie in accusing \expndtw-2 all the lords and grandees of Rush of complicity. Tananda \expndtw-1 could not punish them all. If she tried to, the imaginary \expndtw1 conspiracy she feared would quickly become a fact...\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 Suddenly, Ambool was cold sober. An icy sensation scuttled up his spine. Something - a living, breathing pres\-\expndtw-3 ence - was in the room with him. \par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri154\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\expndtw0 With a low cry, he started up and stared about him, \expndtw-2 straining his eyes to pierce the darkness that clung about \expndtw0 him like the shadowy wings of death. By the faint light \expndtw-1 that carne through the small barred window, the officer \expndtw-5 could just make out a terrible and grisly shape. An icy hand \expndtw-3 clutched at his heart, which through a score of battles had \expndtw-6 never, until this hour, known fear.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri125\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 A shapeless gray fog hovered in the gloom. Seething \expndtw-2 mists whirled like a nest of coiling serpents, as the phan\-\expndtw-4 tom form congealed into solidity. Stark terror lay on Am-\expndtw-5 boola's writhing lips and shone in his rolling eyes as he saw \expndtw0 the thing that condensed slowly into being out of empty \expndtw-21 air.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri77\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-4 First he saw a piglike snout, covered with coarse bristles, \expndtw-3 which thrust into the shaft of dim luminescence that came \expndtw-4 through the window. Then he began to make our a hulking \expndtw0 form amidst the shadows - something huge, misshapen, \expndtw-3 and bestial, which nevertheless stood upright. To a piglike \expndtw0 head was now added thick, hairy arms ending in rudi\-\expndtw-6 mentary hands, like those of a baboon.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 With a piercing shriek, Amboola sprang up - and then \expndtw-1 the motionless thing moved, with the paralyzing speed of \expndtw2 a monster in a nightmare. The black warrior had one \expndtw-1 frenzied glimpse of champing, foaming jaws, of great \expndtw0 chisel-like tusks, of small, piggish eyes that blazed with \expndtw-2 red fury through the dark. Then the brutish paws clamped \expndtw-1 his flesh in a viseHke grip; tusks tore and slashed ...\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw6 Presently the moonlight fell upon a black shape, \expndtw-2 sprawled on the floor in a widening pool of blood. The grayish, shambling thing that a moment before had been \expndtw-4 savaging the black warrior was gone, dissolved into the im\-\expndtw0 palpable mist from which it had taken form. \par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb422\sl360\slmult1\qj\expndtw3\i 2.    The Invisible Terror\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb115\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 'Tuthmes!' The voice was urgent - as urgent as the fist \expndtw3 that hammered on the teakwood door of the house of \expndtw0 the most ambitious nobleman of Rush. 'Lord Tuthmesl Let me in! The devil is loose again!'\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 The door opened, and Tuthmes stood within the portal \expndtw-5 - a tall, slender, aristocratic figure, with the narrow features \expndtw-3 and dusky skin of his caste. He was wrapped in robes of \expndtw-4 white silk as if for bed and held a small bronze lamp in bis \expndtw0 hand.\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-5 'What is it, Afan" ?' he asked.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 The visitor, the whites of his eyes flashing, burst into \expndtw-2 the room. He panted as if from a long run. He was a lean, \expndtw2 wiry, dark-skinned man in a white jubbah, shorter than \expndtw0 Tuthmes and with his Negroid ancestry more prominent in his features. For all his haste, he took care to close the \expndtw-3 door before he answered. \expndtw9 'Amboola! HeisdeadI In the Red Tower!' \expndtw-1 'What?' exclaimed Tuthmes. 'Tananda dared to execute \expndtw-3 the commander of the Black Spears ?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri125\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 'No, no, no! She would not be such a fool, surely. He \expndtw1 was not executed but murdered. Something got into his \expndtw3 cell - how, Set only knows - and tore his throat out, \expndtw-1 stamped in his ribs, and smashed his skull. By Derketa's \expndtw0 snaky locks, I have seen many dead men, but never one \expndtw-2 less lovely in death than Amboola. Tuthmes, it is the work \expndtw-1 of the demon, of whom the black people murmur! The \expndtw2 invisible terror is again loose in Meroel' Afari clutched \expndtw-1 the small paste idol of his protector god, which hung from a thong around his scrawny neck. 'Amboola's throat was \expndtw2 bitten out, and the marks of the teeth were not like those \expndtw-7 of a lion or an ape. It was as if they had been made by razor-\expndtw-9 sharp chisels!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-4 'When was this done?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri86\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw3 'Some time about midnight. Guards in the lower pan \expndtw2 of the tower, watching the stair that leads up to the cell \expndtw1 in which he was imprisoned, heard him cry out. They rushed up the stairs, burst into the cell, and found him \expndtw-4 lying as I have said. I was sleeping in the lower part of the \expndtw-3 tower, as you bade me. Having seen, I came straight here, \expndtw-1 biddmg the guards to say naught to anyone.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri58\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 Tuthmes smiled a cool, impassive smile that was not \expndtw-3 pleasant to see. He murmured: 'You know Tananda's mad \expndtw0 rages. Having thrown Amboola and her cousin Aahmes into prison, she might well have had Amboola slain and \expndtw-3 the corpse maltreated to look like the work of the monster \expndtw2 that has long haunted die land. Might she not, now?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 Comprehension dawned in the eyes of the minister. \expndtw1 Tuthmes, taking Afari's arm, continued: 'Go, now, and \expndtw-2 strike before the queen can learn of it. First, take a detach\-\expndtw0 ment of black spearmen to the Red Tower and slay the \expndtw2 guards for sleeping at their duty. Be sure you let it be \expndtw0 known that you do it by my orders. That will show the \expndtw1 blacks that I have avenged their commander and remove \expndtw0 a weapon from Tananda's hand. Kill them before she can \expndtw-9 have it done.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 'Then spread word to the other chief nobles. If this be \expndtw-1 Tananda's way of dealing with the powerful ones of her \expndtw-2 realm, we had all best be on die alert.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Then go into the Outer City and find old Ageera, the \expndtw-2 witch-smeller. Do not tell him flatly that Tananda caused \expndtw-3 this deed to be done, but hint at it.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 Afari shuddered. 'How can a common man lie to that \expndtw2 devil? His eyes are like coals of fire; they seem to look \expndtw-1 into depths unnamable. I have seen him make corpses rise \expndtw-5 and walk, and skulls champ and grind their fleshless jaws.' \expndtw-2 'Don't lie,' answered Tuthmes, 'Simply hint to him of \expndtw-5 your own suspicions. After all, even if a demon \i did \i0 slay \expndtw-6 Amboola, some human being summoned it out of the night, \expndtw-1 Perhaps Tananda is behind this, after all. So go quickly!' \expndtw-2 When Afari, mulling intensely over his patron's com\-mands, had departed, Tuthmes stood for a moment in the \expndtw-3 midst of his chamber, which was hung with tapestries of \expndtw-6 barbaric magnificence. Blue smoke seeped through a domed \expndtw-1 censer of pierced brass in one corner. Tuthmes called: \expndtw17 'Mum!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb48\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw3 Bare feet scuffed the floor. An arras of dull crimson \expndtw-1 cloth, hung athwart one wall, was thrust back, and an im\-\expndtw3 mensely tall, thin man ducked his head under the lintel \expndtw-1 of the hidden door and entered the room. 'I am here, master,' he said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw6 The man, who towered over even the tall Tuthmes, \expndtw0 wore a large piece of scarlet cloth, hung like a toga from \expndtw2 one shoulder. Although his skin was as black as jet, his \expndtw-2 features were narrow and aquiline, like those of the ruling \expndtw-1 caste of Meroe. The woolly hair of his head was trimmed \expndtw-2 into a fantastic, crested shape. \expndtw-1 'Is \i it \i0 back in its cell ?' inquired Tuthmes. \expndtw3 'It is.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri3379\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 'Is all secure?' \expndtw-3 'Aye, my lord.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sb38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Tuthmes frowned. 'How can you be sure that it will \expndtw-3 always obey your commands and then return to you? How \expndtw0 know you that some day, when you release it, it will not \expndtw1 slay you and flee back to whatever unholy dimension it \expndtw-1 calls home?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Mum spread his hands. 'The spells I learned from my \expndtw-1 master, the exiled Stygian wizard, to control the demon, \expndtw-2 have never failed.'\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri173\sl360\slmult1\qj\expndtw1 Tuthmes gave the sorcerer a piercing look. 'Meseems \expndtw-2 you wizards spend most of your lives in exile. How do I \expndtw-3 know mat some enemy will not bribe you to turn the mon\-\expndtw-11 ster loose on me some day \lang1049\i\'d3\cf0\lang1058\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri144\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 'Oh, master, think not such thoughts. Without your \expndtw-4 protection, whither should I go ? The Kushites despise me, \expndtw-2 (or I am not of their race; and for reasons you know, I \expndtw-3 cannotreturn to Kordafa.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri106\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\super :\nosupersub Hm. Well, take good care of your demon, for we may \expndtw-2 have more use for it soon. That loose-tongued fool, Afari, \expndtw3 loves nothing more than to appear wise in the opinions \expndtw-2 of others. He will spread the tale of Amboola's murder, \expndtw0 embellished with my hints of the queen's role, to a hun\-dred waiting ears. The breach between Tananda and her lords will widen, and I shall reap the benefit.'\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri77\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw3 Chuckling with rare good humor, Tuthmes splashed \expndtw0 wine into two silver cups and handed one to the gaunt \expndtw-1 sorcerer, who accepted it with a silent bow. Tuthmes con\-\expndtw-9 tinued:\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 'Of course, he will not mention that he began the whole \expndtw-2 charade with his false accusations against Amboola and \expndtw-1 Aahmes - without orders from me, too. He knows not that \expndtw1 - thanks to your necromantic skill, friend Muru - I know \expndtw-1 all about this. He pretends to be devoted to my cause and \expndtw4 faction but would sell us out in an instant if he diought \expndtw-1 he could gain thereby. His ultimate ambition is to wed \expndtw0 Tananda and rale Rush as royal consort. When I am king, \expndtw2 I shall need a more trustworthy tool than Afari.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Sipping the wine, Tuthmes mused: 'Ever since the late \expndtw0 king, her brother, perished in battle with the Stygians, \expndtw-1 Tananda has clung insecurely to the ivory throne, playing \expndtw-2 one faction off against another. But she lacks the character to hold power in a land whose tradition does not accept the \expndtw1 rule of a woman. She is a rash, impulsive wanton, whose \expndtw-2 only method of securing power is to slay whatever noble \expndtw-3 she most fears at the moment, thus alerting and antagoniz\-\expndtw-2 ing the rest.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb58\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-6 'Be sure to keep a close watch on Afari, \lang1049\'ce\lang1058  Muru. And \expndtw-9 keep your demon on a tight rein. We snail need the creature \expndtw-3 again.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sb58\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 When the Kordafan had left, ducking his head once \expndtw-5 more to get through the doorway, Tuthmes mounted a \expndtw-3 staircase of polished mahogany. He came out upon the \expndtw-8 flat, moonlit roof of his palace.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sb38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-6 Looking over the parapet, he saw below him the silent \expndtw-2 streets of the Inner City of Meroe. He saw the palaces, \expndtw-4 the gardens, and the great inner square into which, at an \expndtw-8 instant's notice, a thousand black horsemen could ride from \expndtw-6 the courts of the adjoining barracks.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-4 Looking farther, he saw the great bronze gates of the \expndtw-6 Inner City and, beyond diem, die Outer City. Meroe stood in die midst of a great plain of rolling grasslands, which \expndtw-5 stretched - broken only by occasional low hills - to the \expndtw-7 horizon. A narrow river, meandering across the grasslands, \expndtw-5 touched die straggling edges of the Outer City.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri58\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-8 A lofty, massive wall, which enclosed the palaces of the \expndtw-2 ruling caste, separated die Inner and Outer Cities. The \expndtw-4 rulers were descendants of Stygians who, centuries ago, \expndtw-6 had come southward to hack outran empire and mix their \expndtw-3 proud blood with that of dieir black subjects. The Inner \expndtw-5 City was well laid out, with regular streets and squares, \expndtw-7 buildings of stone, and gardens.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri115\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 The Outer City, on die other hand, was a sprawling \expndtw-5 wilderness of mud huts. Its streets straggled into irregular open spaces. The black people of Kush, the aboriginal in\-\expndtw-6 habitants of the country, dwelt in the Outer City. None but \expndtw1 the ruling caste lived in the Inner City, except for their \expndtw3 servants and the black horsemen who served as their \expndtw-16 guardsmen.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri86\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 Tuthmes glanced out over that vast expanse of huts. \expndtw-6 Fires glowed in tie ragged squares; torches swayed to and \expndtw-3 fro in the wandering streets. From time to time he caught \expndtw-4 a snatch of song, a barbaric chant that thrummed with an \expndtw-6 undertone of wrath or blood lust. Tuthmes drew his cloak \expndtw-8 more closely about him and shivered.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri77\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 Advancing across the roof, he halted at the sight of a \expndtw-6 figure sleeping under a palm in die artificial garden. When \expndtw-3 stirred by Tuthmes' toe, this man awoke and sprang up.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-4 'There is no need for speech,' cautioned Tuthmes. .'The \expndtw-8 deed is done. Amboola is dead; and, before dawn, all Meroe \expndtw-7 will know he was murdered by Tananda.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 'And the - the devil?\super 1\nosupersub  whispered the man, shivering.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri48\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-4 'Safely back in its cell. Harken, Shubba; it is time you \expndtw-5 were gone. Search among the Shemites until you find a \expndtw-6 suitable woman - a white woman. Bring her speedily here. \expndtw-3 If you return within the moon, I will give you her weight \expndtw-4 in silver. If you fail, I will hang your head from that palm \expndtw-8 tree.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-4 Shubba prostrated himself and touched his forehead to \expndtw-3 the dust. Then, rising, he hurried from the roof. Tuthmes \expndtw-4 glanced again toward the Outer City. The fires seemed \expndtw-6 somehow to glow more fiercely, and a drum had begun to \expndtw-4 emit an ominous monotone. A sudden clamor of furious \expndtw-9 yeUs welled up to the stars.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-6 'They have heard that Amboola is dead,\super 1\nosupersub  muttered Tuth\-mes, and again a strong shudder shook his frame.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sb355\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2 5.    \i Tananda Rides\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri115\sb173\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-7 Dawn h't the skies above Meroe with crimson flame. Shafts \expndtw7 of rich, ruddy light struck through the misty air and \expndtw2 glanced from the copper-sheathed domes and spires of \expndtw0 the stone-walled Inner City. Soon the people of Merae were astir. In the Outer City, statuesque black women \expndtw-2 walked to the market square with gourds and baskets on \expndtw-1 their heads, while young girls chattered and laughed on their way to the wells. Naked children fought and played \expndtw-4 in the dust or chased each other through the narrow streets. Giant black men squatted in the doorways of their thatched \expndtw1 huts, working at their trades, or lolled on the ground in \expndtw-2 the shade.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri77\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 In the market square, merchants squatted under striped awnings, displaying pots and other manufactures, and vegetables and other produce, on the littered pavement. \expndtw-4 Black folks chaffered and bargained with endless talk over \expndtw-1 plantains, banana beer, and hammered brass ornaments. \expndtw-4 Smiths crouched over little charcoal fires, laboriously beat\-\expndtw1 ing out iron hoes, knives, and spearheads. The hot sun \expndtw-1 blazed down on all - the sweat, mirth., anger, nakedness, strength, squalor, and vigor of the black people of Kush.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri48\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 Suddenly there came a change in the pattern, a new note \expndtw1 in the timbre. With a clatter of hoofs, a group of horse\-\expndtw-1 men rode by in the direction of the great gate of the Inner City. There were half a dozen men and a woman, who dominated the group.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri326\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Her skin was a dusky brown; her hair, a thick, black \expndtw-3 mass, caught back and confined by a golden fillet. Besides \expndtw-2 the sandals on her feet and the jewel-crusted golden plates \expndtw0 that partly covered her full breasts, her only garment was \expndtw-1 a short silken skirt girdled at the waist. Her features were straight; her bold, scintillant eyes, full of challenge and \expndtw1 sureness. She handled the slim Kuehite horse with ease \expndtw-2 and certitude by means of a jeweled bridle and palm-wide, \expndtw-3 gilt-worked reins of scarlet leather. Her sandaled feet stood \expndtw0 in wide silver stirrups, and a gazelle lay across her saddle \expndtw1 bow. A pair of slender coursing hounds trotted close be\-\expndtw-8 hind her horse.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri278\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 As the woman rode by, work and chatter ceased. The \expndtw-3 black faces grew sullen; the murky eyes burned redly. The \expndtw-1 blacks turned their heads to whisper in one another's ears, \expndtw1 and the whispers grew to an audible, sinister murmur.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri211\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2 The youth who rode at the woman's stirrup became \expndtw-2 nervous. He glanced ahead, along the winding street. Esti\-\expndtw-1 mating the distance to the bronze gates, not yet in view \expndtw0 between the huts, he whispered, 'The people grow ugly, \expndtw1 Highness. It was folly to ride through the Outer City to\-\expndtw-12 day.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri182\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 'All the black dogs in Kush shall not keep me from my \expndtw3 hunting!' replied the woman. 'If any threaten, ride them \expndtw-10 down.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri154\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw3 'Easier said than done,' muttered the youth, scanning \expndtw0 the silent mrong. 'They are coming from their houses and \expndtw1 massing thick along the street - look there?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri67\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw3 They entered a wide, ragged square, where the black \expndtw-1 folk swarmed. On one side of this square stood a house of dried mud and palm trunks, larger than its neighbors, with \expndtw-2 a cluster of skulls above the doorway. This was the temple of Jullah, which the ruling caste contemptuously called the \expndtw0 devil-devil house. The black folk worshiped Jullah in op\-position to Set, the serpent-god of their rulers and of their \expndtw-3 Stygian ancestors.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 The black folk thronged in this square, sullenly staring \expndtw3 at the horsemen. There was an air of menace in their \expndtw2 attitude. Tananda. for the first time feeling a slight ner\-\expndtw0 vousness, failed to notice another rider, approaching the \expndtw2 square along another street. This rider would ordinarily \expndtw3 have attracted attention, for he was neither brown nor \expndtw-2 black. He was a white man, a powerful figure in chain mail \expndtw-3 and helmet. \par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb67\sl360\slmult1\qj These dogs mean mischief,* muttered the youth at Tan-\expndtw-1 anda's side, half drawing his curved sword. The other \expndtw-2 guardsmen - black men like the folk around them - drew \expndtw-1 closer about her but did not draw their blades. The low, \expndtw-2 sullen muttering grew louder, although no movement was \expndtw-4 made.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb58\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 'Push through them,' ordered Tananda, spurring her \expndtw-2 horse. The blacks gave back sullenly before her advance.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 Then, suddenly, from the devil-devil house came a lean, \expndtw0 black figure. It was old Ageera, the witch-smeller, clad \expndtw-3 only in a loincloth. Pointing at Tananda, he yelled \lang1049\'e3\lang1058  'There \expndtw-1 she rides, she whose hands are dipped in blood! She who \expndtw1 murdered Amboola!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 His shout was the spark that set off the explosion. A vast roar arose from the mob. They surged forward, \expndtw2 screaming, 'Death to Tananda!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3 In an instant, a hundred black hands were clawing at the \expndtw-2 legs of the riders. The youth reined between Tananda and \expndtw-3 the mob, but a flying stone shattered his skull. The guards\-\expndtw1 men, thrusting and hacking, were torn from their steeds \expndtw-2 and beaten, stamped, and stabbed to death. Tananda, beset \expndtw-1 at last by terror, screamed as her horse reared. A score of \expndtw0 wild black figures, men and women, clawed at her.\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 A giant grasped her thigh and plucked her from the \expndtw-2 saddle, full into the furious hands that eagerly awaited her. \expndtw0 Her skirt was ripped from her body and waved in the air above her, while a bellow of primitive laughter went up \expndtw-1 from the surging mob. A woman spat in her face and tore \expndtw-2 off her breastplates, scratching her breasts with blackened \expndtw1 fingernails. A hurtling stone grazed her head.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri134\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 Tananda saw a stone clutched in a hand, whose owner \expndtw2 sought to reach her in the press to brain her. Daggers \expndtw1 glinted. Only the hindering numbers of the jammed mass kept them from instantly doing her to death. A roar went \expndtw2 up: 'To the temple of Jullah!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri115\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 An instant clamor responded. Tananda felt herself half \expndtw2 carried, half dragged along by the surging mob. Black \expndtw-2 hands gripped her hair, arms, and legs. Blows aimed at her \expndtw0 in the crush were blocked or diverted by the mass.\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri77\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 Then came a shock, under which the whole throng stag\-\expndtw-2 gered, as a horseman on a powerful steed crashed full into \expndtw1 the press. Men, screaming, went down to be crushed un\-\expndtw-3 der the flailing hoofs. Tanatida caught a glimpse of a figure \expndtw-1 towering above the throng, of a dark, scarred face under a steel helmet, and a great sword lashing up and down, spat\-\expndtw-3 tering crimson splashes. But, from somewhere in the crowd, \expndtw5 a spear licked upward, disemboweling the steed. It \expndtw-3 screamed, plunged, and went down.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri67\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 The rider, however, landed on his feet, smiting right and \expndtw-1 left. Wildly driven spears glanced from his helmet or from the shield on his left arm, while his broadsword cleft flesh \expndtw0 and bone, split skulls, and spilled entrails into the bloody \expndtw-4 dust.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw4 Flesh and blood could not stand it. Gearing a space, \expndtw0 the stranger stooped and caught up the terrified girl. Cov\-\expndtw1 ering her with his shield, he fell back, cutting a ruthless \expndtw0 path until he had backed into the angle of a wall. Pushing \expndtw2 her behind him, he stood before her, beating back the \expndtw-1 frothing, screaming onslaught.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 Then there was a clatter of hoofs. A company of guards\-\expndtw-1 men swept into the square, driving the rioters before them. \expndtw4 The Kushites, screaming in sudden panic, fled into the \expndtw0 side streets, leaving a score of bodies littering the square, \expndtw1 The captain of the guard - a giant Negro, resplendent in \expndtw0 crimson silk and gold-worked harness - approached and dismounted. \par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\expndtw-4 'You were long in coming,' said Tananda, who had risen \expndtw-3 and regained her poise.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 The captain turned ashy. Before he could move, Ta\-\expndtw-3 nanda had made a sign to the men behind him. Using both \expndtw-2 hands, one of them drove his spear between his captain's \expndtw0 shoulders with such force that the point started out from \expndtw-3 his breast. The officer sank to his knees, and thrusts from a half-dozen more spears finished the task.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw5 Tananda shook her long, black, disheveled hair and \expndtw7 faced her rescuer.  She was bleeding frbm a score of \expndtw0 scratches and as naked as a newborn babe, but she stared \expndtw2 at the man without perturbation or uncertainty. He gave \expndtw-2 back her stare, his expression betraying a frank admiration \expndtw1 for her cool bearing and the ripeness of her brown limbs \expndtw-2 and voluptuously molded torso. \expndtw-3 'Who are you ?' she demanded. \expndtw-1 'I am Conan, a Cimmerian,' he grunted. \expndtw3 'Cimmerian?' She had never heard of this far country, \expndtw0 which lay hundreds of leagues to the north. She frowned. \expndtw4 'You wear Stygian \lang1049\'f2\'e0\'e9\lang1058  and helm. Are you a Stygian of \expndtw-6 some sort?*\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw3 He shook his head, baring white teeth in a grin. 'I got \expndtw2 the armor from a Stygian, but I had to kill the fool first.' \expndtw-3 'What do you, then, in Meroe \lang1049\i\'d3\lang1058  \expndtw-1\i0 'I am a wanderer,' he said simply, 'with a sword for hire. \expndtw2 I came here to seek my fortune.' He did not think it wise \expndtw1 to tell her of his previous career as a corsair on the Black \expndtw3 Coast, or of his chieftainship of one of the jungle tribes \expndtw-2 to the south.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri58\sb38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 The queen's eyes ran appraisingly over Conan's giant \expndtw-2 form, measuring the breadth of his shoulders and the depth \expndtw-1 of his chest. 'I will hire your sword,' she said at last. 'What is your price?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri115\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw3 'What price do you offer?' he countered with a rueful \expndtw-1 glance at the carcass of his horse. 'I am a penniless wan\-\expndtw0 derer and now, alas, afoot.'\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri106\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 She shook her head. 'No, by Set! You are penniless no \expndtw3 longer, but captain of the royal guard. Will a hundred \expndtw-4 pieces of goid a month buy your loyalty ?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri86\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 He glanced casually at the sprawling figure of the former \expndtw-1 captain, who lay in silk, steel, and blood. The sight did cot \expndtw-3 dim the zest of his sudden grin.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 'I think so,' said Conan.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri96\sb336\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2\i 4.    The Golden Slave\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri48\sb134\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw6 The days passed, and the moon waned and waxed. A \expndtw-3 brief, disorganized rising by the lower castes was put down \expndtw2 by Conan with an iron hand. Shubba, Tuthmes' servant, \expndtw3 returned to Meroe. Coming to Tuthmes in his chamber, \expndtw-1 where lion skins carpeted the marble floor, he said, 'I have \expndtw0 found the woman you desired, master - a Nemedian girl, \expndtw-2 captured from a trading vessel of Argos. I paid the Shemite \expndtw-1 slave trader many broad pieces of gold for her."\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 'Let me see her,' commanded Tuthmes.\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw4 Shubba left the mom and returned a moment later, \expndtw0 leading a girl by the wrist. She was supple, and her white body formed a dazzling contrast to the brown and black bodies to which Tuthmes was accustomed. Her hair fell in a curly, rippling, golden stream over her white shoulders. \expndtw-3 She was clad only in a tattered shift. This Shubba removed, \expndtw-2 leaving her shrinking in complete nudity.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Impersonally, Tuthmes nodded. 'She is a fine bit of \expndtw0 merchandise. If I were not gambling for a throne, I might \expndtw1 be tempted to keep her for myself. Have you taught her Kushite, as I commanded?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Aye; in the city of the Stygians and later, daily, on the \expndtw6 caravan trail, I taught her. After the Shemite fashion, I \expndtw3 impressed upon her the need of learning with a slipper. \expndtw-1 Her name is Diana.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 Tuthmes seated himself on a couch and indicated that \expndtw2 the girl should sit cross-legged on the floor at his feet. \expndtw-2 This she did.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw3 'I am going to give you to the queen of Kush as a \expndtw0 present,' he said. 'Nominally you will be her slave, but \expndtw-4 actually you will still belong to me. You will receive your \expndtw-1 orders regularly, and you shall not fail to carry them out. \expndtw1 The' queen is cruel and hasty, so beware of roiling her. \expndtw-3 You shall say nothing, even if tortured, of your continuing \expndtw-2 connection with me. Lest, when you fancy yourself out of \expndtw-3 my reach in the royal palace, you be tempted to disobey., I shall demonstrate my power to you.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw3 Taking her hand, he led her through a corridor, down \expndtw2 a flight of stone stairs, and into a long, dimly-lit room. \expndtw-2 This chamber was divided into equal halves by a wall of \expndtw-1 crystal, as clear as water although a yard thick and strong enough to resist the lunge of a bull elephant. Tuthmes led Diana to this wall and made her stand, facing it, while he \expndtw0 stepped back. Abruptly, the light went out.\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 As she stood in darkness, her slender limbs trembling \expndtw-1 with unreasoning panic, light began to glow out of the \expndtw1 blackness. She saw a malformed, hideous head grow out \expndtw-2 of the blackness. She saw a bestial snout, chisel-like teeth, \expndtw-3 and brisdes. As the horror moved toward her, she screamed \expndtw3 and turned, forgetting in her frantic fear the sheets of \expndtw1 crystal that kept the brute from her. In the darkness, she \expndtw3 ran full into the arms of Tuthmes. She heard him hiss, \expndtw0 'You have been my servant. Do not fail me, for if you do \expndtw-2 he will search you out wherever you may be. You cannot \expndtw-1 hide from him.' When he whispered something else in her \expndtw-3 ear, she fainted.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri115\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw7 Tuthmes carried her up the stairs and gave her into \expndtw-1 the hands of a black woman with orders to revive her, see \expndtw-2 that she had food and wine, and bathe, comb, perfume, and \expndtw2 deck her for presentation to the queen on the morrow.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb355\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2 5.    \i The Lash of Tananda\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri77\sb106\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw5 The next day, Shubba led Diana of Nemedia to Tuth\-\expndtw2 mes' chariot, hoisted her into the car, and took the reins. \expndtw0 It was a different Diana, scrubbed and perfumed, with her \expndtw-3 beauty enhanced by a discreet touch of cosmetics. She wore \expndtw2 a robe of silk so thin that every contour could be seen \expndtw-1 through it. A diadem of silver sparkled on her golden hair.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri48\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 She was, however, still terrified. Life had been a night\-\expndtw2 mare ever since the slavers had kidnapped her. She had \expndtw1 tried to comfort herself, during the long months that fol\-\expndtw5 lowed, with the thought uiat nothing lasts forever and \expndtw0 that things were so bad that they were bound to improve. \expndtw-1 Instead, they had only worsened.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Now, she was about to be proffered as a gift to a cruel \expndtw0 and irascible queen. If she survived, she would be caught \expndtw4 between the dangers of Tuthmes' monster on one hand and the suspicions of the queen on the other. If she did \expndtw0 not spy for Tuthmes, the demon would get her; if she did, \expndtw-2 the queen would probably catch her at it and have her done \expndtw-1 to death in some even more gruesome fashion.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 Overhead, the sky had a steely look. In the west, clouds \expndtw2 were piling up, tier upon tier; for the end of Rush's dry \expndtw-3 season was at hand.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sb58\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 The chariot rumbled toward the main square in front of the royal palace. The wheels crunched softly over drifted \expndtw1 sand, now and then rattling loudly as they encountered a \expndtw0 stretch of bare pavement. Few upper-caste Meroites were \expndtw4 abroad, for the heat of the afternoon was at its height. \expndtw1 Most of the ruling class slumbered in their houses. A few \expndtw-4 of their black servants slouched through the streets, turn\-ing blank faces, shining with sweat, toward the chariot as \expndtw-6 it passed.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-4 At the palace, Shubba handed Diana down from the chariot and led her in through the gilded bronze gates. A \expndtw-1 fat major domo conducted them through corridors and \expndtw-2 into a large chamber, fitted out with the ornate opulence \expndtw-6 of the room of a Stygian princess - which in a way it was. On a couch of ivory and ebony, inlaid with gold and \expndtw-4 mother-of-pearl, sat Tananda, clad only in a brief skirt of \expndtw-8 crimson silk.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 The queen's eyes insolently examined the trembling \expndtw-2 blond slave before her. The girl was obviously \lang1049\i\'ff\lang1058  \i0 fine piece of human property. But Tananda's heart, steeped in treach\-\expndtw1 ery itself, was swift to suspect treachery in others. The \expndtw-1 queen spoke suddenly, in a voice heavy with veiled men\-ace:\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw4 'Speak, wench! Why did Tuthmes send you to the \expndtw2 palace?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw6 'I-I do not know-where am I?-Who are you?'Diana \expndtw-4 had a small, high voice, like that of a child.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-4 'I am Queen Tananda, fool! Now answer my question.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-6 'I know not the answer, my lady. All I know is that Lord \expndtw-5 Tuthmes sent me as a gift\emdash '\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3 'You lie! Tuthmes is eaten up with ambition. Since he \expndtw-5 hates me, he would not make me a gift without an ulterior \expndtw-3 reason. He must have some plot in mind. Speak up, or it \expndtw-6 will be the worse for you!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 'I -1 do not know! I do not know!' wailed Diana, burst\-\expndtw2 ing into tears. Frightened almost to insanity by Muni's \expndtw-2 demon, she could not have spoken even if she had wished. \expndtw2 Her tongue would have refused to obey her brain.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 'Strip her!' commanded Tananda. The flimsy robe was \expndtw-5 torn from Diana's body. \par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri154\sl360\slmult1\qj\expndtw1 'String her up!' said Tananda. Diana's wrists were \expndtw-6 bound, the rope was thrown over a beam, and the end was \expndtw-4 pulled taut, so that the girl's arms were extended straight \expndtw-10 over her head,\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri134\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 Tananda rose, a whip in her hand. 'Now,' she said with \expndtw-6 a cruel smile, 'we shall see what you know about our dear \expndtw0 friend Tuthmes' little schemes. Once more: will you \expndtw-9 speak?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri115\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-6 Her voice choked with sobs, Diana could only shake her head. The whip whistled and cracked across the Nemedian \expndtw-5 girl's skin, leaving a red welt diagonally across her back. \expndtw-6 Diana uttered a piercing shriek.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri67\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-4 'What's all this?' said a deep voice. Conan, wearing his \expndtw-5 coat of mail over his jubbah and girt with his sword, stood \expndtw-6 in the doorway. Having become intimate with Tananda, he \expndtw-3 was accustomed to entering her palace unannounced. \expndtw-6 Tananda had taken lovers before - the murdered Amboola among them - but never one in whose embraces she found \expndtw-3 such ecstasy, nor one whose relationship with her she flaunted so brazenly. She could not have enough of the \expndtw-4 giant northerner.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 Now, however, she spun about, 'Just a northern slut, \expndtw-5 whom Tuthmes was sending me as a gift - no doubt to slip a dagger into my ribs or a potion into my wine,' she snap\-\expndtw-2 ped. 'I am trying to learn the truth from her. If you want \expndtw-7 to love me, come back later.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 'That is not my only reason for coming,' he replied, \expndtw-4 grinning wolnshly. "There is also a little matter of state. \expndtw-2 What is this folly, to let the blacks into the Inner City to \expndtw-4 watch Aahmes bum?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 'What folly, Conan> It wffi show the black dogs I am not to be trifled with. The scoundrel will be tortured in a \expndtw-7 way that will be remembered for years. Thus perish all foes \expndtw-2 of our divine dynasty! What objection have you, pray>' \par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\expndtw1 'Just \i this: \i0 if you let a few thousand Kushites into the Inner City and then work up their blood lust by the sighl \expndtw0 of the torture, it won't take much to set off another rising, \expndtw2 Your divine dynasty has not given them much cause to \expndtw-1 love it.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 'I do not fear those black scum!' \expndtw2 'Maybe not. But I have saved your pretty neck from \expndtw1 them twice, and the third time my luck might run out. I \expndtw-2 tried to tell your minister Afari this just now, in his palace, \expndtw0 but he said it was your command and he could do naught. I thought you might listen to sense from me, since your peopJc fear you too much to say anything that might dis\-\expndtw-3 please you.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sb48\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 Til do naught of the kind. Now get out of here and leave \expndtw-1 me to my work - unless you would care to wield the whip \expndtw0 yourself.'\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sb38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 Conan approached Diana. "Tuthmes has taste,' he said. 'But the lass has been frightened out of her wits. No tale \expndtw2 you got out of her would be worth the hearing. Give her to me, and I'll show you what a little kindness can do.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri48\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 'You, kind? Ha! Mind your own affairs, Conan, and I \expndtw-1 will mind mine. You should be posting your guardsmen \expndtw2 against tonight's gathering.' Tananda spoke sharply to Diana: 'Now speak, hussy, damn your soul!' The whip \expndtw3 hissed as she drew back her arm for another lash.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri58\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 Moving with the effortless speed of a lion, Conan caught \expndtw3 Tananda's wrist and twisted the whip out of her hand.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri67\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2 'Let me go I' she screamed. 'You dare to use force on \expndtw10 me? I'll have you-I'll-I'll\emdash '\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri77\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 'You'll what?' said Conan calmly. He tossed the whip \expndtw-1 into a corner, drew his dagger, and cut the rope that bound \expndtw3 Diana's wrists. Tananda's servants exchanged uneasy \expndtw-4 glances.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Mind your royal dignity, Highness!' grinned Conan, \expndtw1 gathering Diana into his arms. 'Remember that, wfth me \expndtw-3 in command of the guard, you have at least a chance. With\-\expndtw-2 out me - well, you know the answer to that. I shall see you \expndtw-1 at the torture.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri58\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 He strode toward the door, carrying the Nemedian girl. \expndtw1 Screaming with rage, Tananda picked up the discarded whip and hurled it after him. The handle struck his broad \expndtw-4 back, and the whip fell to the floor.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri48\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 'Just because she has a fish-belly skin like yours, you \expndtw0 prefer her to mel' shrieked Tananda. 'You shall rue your \expndtw-1 insolence!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 With a rumbling laugh, Conan walked out. Tananda \expndtw0 sank to the floor, beating the marble with her fists and \expndtw-2 weeping with frustration.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 Moments later, Shubba, driving Tuthmes' chariot back \expndtw1 toward his master's house, passed Conan's dwelling. He \expndtw-1 was astonished to see Conan, carrying a naked girl in his arms, entering his front door. Shubba shook the reins and \expndtw-4 hastened on his way.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sb336\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2\i 6.    DarkCounsel\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sb115\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 The first lamps had been lit against the dusk as Tuthmes sat in his chamber with Shubba and with Mum, the tall \expndtw0 Kordafan sorcerer. Shubba, glancing uneasily at his mas\-\expndtw-3 ter, had finished his tale.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\lang1049\expndtw-2\'d2\lang1058  see that I did not credit Tananda with her full measure \expndtw-1 of suspiciousness,' said Tuthmes. 'A pity to waste so pro\-mising an instrument as dial Nemedian girl, but not every \expndtw5 shaft strikes the butt. The question, however, is: what \expndtw-2 shall we do next? Has anyone seen Ageera?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb67\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 'Nay, my lord,' said Shubba. 'He vanished after stirring \expndtw-1 up that riot against Tananda - very prudently, if I may say \expndtw0 so. Some say he has left Meroe; some, that he lurks in the temple of Jullah, working divinations by day and night.'\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-6 'If our divine queen had the wit of a woman,' sneered \expndtw-5 Tuthmes, 'she would invade that devil-devil house with a \expndtw-4 few stout guardsmen and hang the priests to their own \expndtw-7 rooftrce,' His two companions started and shifted their eyes \expndtw-5 uneasily. 'I know; you arc all terrified of their spells and spooks. Well, let us see. The girl is now useless to us. If \expndtw-4 Tananda failed to wring our secrets from her, Conan will do so by gentler means, and in his house she will learn naught of interest to us anyway. She must die forthwith, \expndtw-3 Mum, can you send your demon to Conan's house while \expndtw-4 he is commanding his guardsmen this evening, to make \expndtw-8 away with the wench ?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2 That I can, master/ replied the Kordafan. 'Should I \expndtw-4 not command it to stay there until Conan returns and slay \expndtw-1 him, too? For I see that you will never be king whilst \expndtw-5 Conan lives. As long as he holds his present post, he will \expndtw-4 fight like a devil to protect the queen, his leman, because \expndtw-5 he so promised to do, regardless of how he and she may \expndtw-4 quarrel otherwise.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-4 Shubba added: 'Even if we got rid of Tananda, Conan \expndtw-5 would still stand in our way. He might become king him\-\expndtw-4 self. He is practically the uncrowned king of Kush now -\expndtw-5 the queen's confidant and lover. His guardsmen love him, \expndtw-2 swearing that despite his white skin he is really a black \expndtw-7 man like themselves inside.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 'Good,' said Tuthmes. 'Let us dispose of the twain at \expndtw-3 the same time. I shall be watching the torture of Aahmes \expndtw-5 in the main square, so that none shall say that I had a hand \expndtw-9 in the slaying.*\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sb29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 'Why not set the demon on Tananda., also?' asked \expndtw-5 Shubba.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri154\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 'It is not yet time. First, I must align the other nobles behind my claim to the throne, and this will not be easy. \expndtw-5 Too many of them, as well, fancy themselves as king of \expndtw-4 Kush. Until my faction grows stronger, my hold on the \expndtw-5 throne would be as insecure as Tananda's now is. So I am \expndtw-6 satisfied to wait, meanwhile letting her hang herself by her \expndtw-11 own excesses.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb317\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 7.    \i The Fate of a Kingdom\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri106\sb106\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw3 In the main square of the Inner City, Prince Aahmes \expndtw-5 was tied to a stake in the center. Aahmes was a plump, \expndtw-7 brown-skinned young man, whose very innocence in mat\-ters of politics, it seemed., had enabled Afari to trap him by \expndtw-9 a false accusation.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri67\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-6 Bonfires in the corners of the square and lines of torches \expndtw-4 illuminated an infernal scene. Between the stake and the \expndtw-5 royal palace stood a low platform, on which sat Tananda. \expndtw-6 Around the platform, royal guards were ranked three deep. \expndtw-3 The fires shone redly on the long blades of their spears, \expndtw-7 their shields of elephant hide, and the plumes of their head\-\expndtw-8 dresses.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 To one side of the square, Conan sat his horse at the \expndtw-2 head of a company of mounted guardsmen with lances \expndtw-3 erect. In the distance, lightning rippled through the high-\expndtw-7 piled clouds.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 In the center, where Lord Aahmes was tied, more \expndtw-7 guardsmen kept a space clear. In the space, the royal execu\-\expndtw-2 tioner was heating the instruments of his calling over a \expndtw-4 litde forge. The rest of the square was jammed with most \expndtw-6 of the folk of Meroe, mingled in one vast, indiscriminate \expndtw-4 throng. The torchlight picked out white eyeballs and teeth \expndtw-7 against dark skins. Tuthmes and his servants formed a solid \expndtw-6 clump in the front row.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb86\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 Conan looked over the throng with dark foreboding. \expndtw1 All had been orderly so far; but who knew what would \expndtw-6 happen when primitive passions were stirred? A nameless \expndtw-3 anxiety nagged at the back of his mind. As time passed, \expndtw-7 this anxiety became fixed, not on the fate of the headstrong \expndtw-4 queen, but on the Nemedian girl whom he had left at his \expndtw-5 house. He had left her with only a single servant, a black woman, because he had needed all his guardsmen to con\-trol the gathering in the square.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 In the few hours he had known Diana, Conan had be\-\expndtw-2 come much taken with her. Sweet, gentle, and perhaps \expndtw-4 even a virgin, she contrasted in every way with the fiery, tempestuous, passionate, cruel, sensual Tananda. Being \expndtw-3 Tananda's lover was certainly exciting, but after a time \expndtw-1 Conan thought he might prefer someone less stormy for \expndtw-6 a change. Knowing Tananda, he would not have put it past her to have sent one of her servants to murder Diana while \expndtw-7 Conan was otherwise occupied.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 In the center of the square, the executioner blew on \expndtw-6 his Httle charcoal fire with a bellows. He held up an instru\-\expndtw-4 ment, which glowed a bright cherry red in the dark. He approached the prisoner. Conan could not hear over the \expndtw-2 murmur of the crowd, but he knew that the executioner was asking Aahmes for details of his plot. The captive \expndtw-8 shook his head.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-4 It was as though a voice were speaking inside Conan's \expndtw-3 mind, urging him to return to his house. In the Hyborian \expndtw-1 lands, Conan had listened to the speculations of priests \expndtw-4 and philosophers. They had argued over the existence of guardian spirits and over the possibility of direct com\-\expndtw-5 munication from mind to mind. Being convinced that they \expndtw-3 were all mad, he had not paid much attention at the time. \expndtw-6 Now, however, he thought he knew what they were talking \expndtw-4 about. He tried to dismiss the sensation as mere imagina\-tion; but it returned, stronger than ever. \par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri154\sl360\slmult1\qj\expndtw4 At last Conan told his adjutant: 'Mongo, take com\-\expndtw3 mand until Ireturn.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-5 'Whither go you, Lord Conan?\super 1\nosupersub  asked the black.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri144\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 'To ride through the streets, to be sure no gang of ras\-\expndtw-4 cals has gathered under cover of darkness. Keep things \expndtw-8 under control; I shall soon be back.*\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri115\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-2 Conan turned his horse and trotted out of the square. \expndtw-3 The crowd opened to let him pass. The sensation in his head was stronger than ever. He clucked his steed to an \expndtw-7 easy canter and presently drew rein in front of his dwelling. \expndtw-6 A faint nimble of thunder sounded.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri96\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-5 The house was dark, save for a single light in the back. \expndtw-3 Conan dismounted, tied his horse, and entered, hand on hilt. At that instant he heard a frightful scream, which he \expndtw-8 recognized as the voice of Diana.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri77\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-6 With a sulphurous oath, Conan rushed headlong into the \expndtw-3 house, tearing out his sword. The scream came from the \expndtw-6 living room, which was dark save for the stray beams of a \expndtw-5 single candle that burned in the kitchen.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri48\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 At the door of the living room, Conan halted, trans\-\expndtw-4 fixed by the scene before him. Diana cowered on a low \expndtw-5 settee strewn with leopard skins, her white limbs unveiled \expndtw-4 by the disarray of her silken shift. Her blue eyes were di\-lated with terror.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-4 Hanging in the center of the room, a gray, coiling mist was taking shape and form. The seething fog had already \expndtw-3 partly condensed into a hulking, monstrous form with \expndtw-4 sloping, hairy shoulders and thick, bestial limbs. Conan \expndtw-5 glimpsed the creature's misshapen head with its bristling) \expndtw-6 piglike snout and tusked, champing jaws.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri86\sb67\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 The thing had solidified out of thin air, materializing \expndtw-5 by some demonic magic. Primal legends rose in Conan's mind - whispered tales of horrid, shambling things that \expndtw-4 prowled the dark and slew with inhuman fury. For hah* a \expndtw-1 heartbeat his atavistic fears made him hesitate. Then, with \lang1049\expndtw2\'e7\lang1058  snarl of rage, he sprang forward to give battle - and \expndtw-3 tripped over the body of the black woman servant, who had \expndtw-2 fainted and lay just inside the doorway. Conan fell sprawl\-\expndtw-3 ing, the sword flying from his hand.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri67\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2 At the same instant the monster, with supernatural \expndtw1 quickness, whirled and launched itself at Conan in a gi\-gantic bound. As Conan fell flat, the demon passed dear \expndtw0 over his body and fetched up against the wall of the hall \expndtw-2 outside.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri58\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw5 The combatants were on their feet in an instant. As \expndtw-1 the monster sprang upon Conan anew, a flash of lightning \expndtw-3 outside gleamed upon its great chisel tusks. The Cimmerian \expndtw1 thrust his left elbow up under its jaw, while he fumbled \expndtw-2 with its right hand for his dagger.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw3 The demon's hairy arms encircled Oman's body with \expndtw1 crushing force; a smaller man's back would have been \expndtw0 broken. Conan heard his clothing rip as the blunt nails of its hands dug in, and a couple of links of his mail shirt snapped with sharp, metallic sounds. Although the weight \expndtw1 of die demon was about the same as the Cimmerian's, its \expndtw0 strength was incredible. As he strained every muscle, Co-\expndtw-2 nan felt his left forearm being bent slowly back, so that the snouted jaws came closer and closer to his face.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 In the semidark, the two stamped and staggered about \expndtw0 like partners in some grotesque dance. Conan fumbled for \expndtw-1 his dagger, while the demon brought its tusks ever nearer. \expndtw1 Conan realized that his belt must have become awry, so that the dagger was out of reach. He felt even his titanic strength ebbing, when something cold was thrust into his \expndtw3 groping right hand. It was the hilt of his sword, which \expndtw0 Diana had picked up and now pressed into his grasp.\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri125\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2 Drawing back his right arm, Conan felt with his point \expndtw-1 for a place in the body of his assailant. Then he thrust. The \expndtw-3 monster's skin seemed of unnatural toughness, but a mighty \expndtw-1 heave drove the blade home. Spasmodically champing its \expndtw-2 jaws, the creature uttered a bestial grunt.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri77\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw3 Conan stabbed again and again, but the shaggy brute \expndtw-2 did not even seem to feel the bite of the steel. The demonic \expndtw0 arms dragged the Cimmerian into an ever closer, bone-\expndtw-3 crushing embrace. The chisel-toothed jaws came closer and \expndtw-1 closer to his face. More links of his mail shirt parted with \expndtw1 musical snapping sounds. Rough claws ripped his tunic \expndtw0 and dug bloody furrows in his sweat-smeared back. A viscuous fluid from the creature's wounds, which did not feel like any normal blood, ran down the front of Conan's \expndtw-3 garments.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 At length, doubling both legs and driving them into the \expndtw2 thing's belly with every ounce of strength remaining to \expndtw0 him, Conan tore himself free. He staggered to his feet, \expndtw-1 dripping gore. As the demon shuffled toward him again, \expndtw-2 swinging its apelike arms for another grapple, Conan, with \expndtw4 both hands on his hilt, swung his sword in a desperate \expndtw-1 arc. The blade bit into the monster's neck, half severing it. \expndtw-3 The mighty blow would have decapitated two or even diree \expndtw0 human foes at once, but the demon's tissues were tougher \expndtw-2 than those of mortal men.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 The demon staggered back and crashed to the floor. As \expndtw3 Conan stood panting, with dripping blade, Diana threw her arms about his neck. Tm so glad -1 prayed to Ishtar \expndtw-2 to send you\emdash '\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw3 'There, there,' said Conan, comforting the gir[ with \expndtw1 rough caresses. 'I may look ready for the grave, but I can still stand\emdash '\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 He broke off, eyes wide. The dead thing rose, its mal\-\expndtw-1 formed head wobbling on its half-severed neck. It lurched to the door, tripped over the still-unconscious body of the \expndtw1 Negro servant woman, and staggered out into the night. \par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sb115\sl360\slmult1\qj\expndtw6 'Crom and Mitra!' gasped Oman. Pushing the girl \expndtw1 aside, he growled: 'Later, later! You're a good lass, but I \expndtw0 must follow that thing. That's the demon of the night they \expndtw4 talk about, and by Crom, I'll find out where it comes \expndtw7 from!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 He reeled out, to find his horse gone. A length of rein \expndtw4 attached to the hitching ring told that the animal had \expndtw3 broken its tether in panic at the demon's appearance.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 Moments later, Conan reappeared in the square. As he rammed his way through the crowd, which had burst into a roar of excitement, he saw the monster stagger and fall \expndtw0 in front of the tall Kordafan wizard in Tuthmes' group. In \expndtw2 its final throes, it laid its head at the sorcerer's feet.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 Screams of rage arose from the crowd, which recognized the monster as the demon that for years had terrified Meroe \expndtw0 from time to time. Although the guardsmen still straggled \expndtw2 to keep the space around the torture stake open, hands \expndtw3 reached from the sides and back to pull Mum down. In the confused uproar, Conan caught a few snatches of \expndtw5 speech: 'Slay him! He is the demon's master! KiUhiml'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 A sudden hush fell. In the clear space, Ageera had sud\-\expndtw2 denly appeared, his shaven head painted to resemble a \expndtw-2 skull. It was as if he had somehow bounded over the heads of the crowd to land inthe clearing.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 'Why slay the tool and not the man who wields it?* he \expndtw2 shrieked. He pointed at Tuthmes. There stands he whom \expndtw1 the Kordafan served! At his command, the demon slew Amboola! My spirits have told me, in the silence of the temple of Jullah! Slay him, too!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 As more hands dragged down the screaming Tuthmes, \expndtw-3 Ageera pointed toward the platform on which sat die queen. \expndtw0 'Slay all the lords! Cast off your bonds! Kill the masters! \expndtw-1 Be free men again and not slaves! Kill, kill, kill I'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri173\sb19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 Conan could barely keep his feet in the buffeting of the \expndtw2 crowd, which surged this way and that, chanting: '\lang1049\'ca\'d8\lang1058 , \expndtw1 kill, kill!' Here and there a screaming lord was brought \expndtw-3 down and torn to pieces.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri106\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 Conan struggled toward his mounted guards, by means of whom he still hoped to clear the square. Then, over the \expndtw-2 heads of die mob, he saw a sight that changed his plans. A \expndtw0 royal guardsman, standing with his back to the platform, \expndtw2 turned about and hurled his spear straight at the queen, \expndtw-2 whom he was supposed to protect. The spear went through \expndtw0 her glorious body as if through butter. As she slumped in \expndtw1 her seat, a dozen more spears found their mark in her. At the fall of their ruler, the mounted guardsmen joined the rest of the tribesmen in the massacre of the ruling caste.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri86\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 Moments later, Conan., battered and disheveled but \expndtw2 leading another horse, appeared at his dwelling. He tied \expndtw1 the animal, rushed inside, and brought a bag of coins out \expndtw-3 of its hiding place.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri67\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2 'Let's go!' he barked at Diana. 'Grab a loaf of bread! \expndtw3 Where in the cold Hells of Niflheim is my shield? Ah, \expndtw7 here!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw4 'But don't you want to take those nice things\emdash\i * \expndtw-1\i0 'No time; the browns are done for. Hold my girdle while you ride behind me. Up with you, now!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri67\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2 With its double burden, the horse galloped heavily \expndtw1 through the Inner City, through a rabble of looters and \expndtw2 rioters, pursuers and pursued. One man, who leaped for \expndtw1 the animal's bridle, was ridden down with a shriek and a \expndtw-2 snapping of bones; others scrambled madly out of the way. \expndtw1 Out through the great bronze gates they rode, while be\-\expndtw-1 hind them the houses of the nobility blazed up into yellow \expndtw0 pyramids of flame. Overhead lightning flashed, thunder roared, and ram came pelting down like a waterfall. \expndtw2 An hour later, the rain had slackened to a drizzle. The horse moved at a slow walk, picking its way through the \expndtw-2 darkness.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri58\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-1 'We're still on the Stygian road,' grumbled Conan, striv\-ing to pierce the dark with his gaze. 'When the rain stops, \expndtw0 we'll stop, too, to dry off and get a little sleep.'\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri38\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw1 'Where are we going?' said die high, gentle voice of \expndtw0 Diana.\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri29\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1 'I don't know; but I'm tired of the black countries. You \expndtw1 cannot do anything with these people; they are as hide\-\expndtw0 bound and as thick-headed as the barbarians of my own \expndtw6 north country - the Cimmerians and \i &sii \i0 and Vanir. I \expndtw-3 am minded to have another try at civilization.\super 1\cf0\expndtw0\nosupersub\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw-3 'And what about me ?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri19\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw4 'What do you want? I'll send you home or keep you \expndtw-3 with me, whichever you like.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi480\ri10\sb10\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2 'I think,' she said in a small voice, 'that in spite of the \expndtw-2 wet and everything, I like things as they are.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\fi480\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf1\expndtw2 Conan grinned silently in the darkness and urged the \expndtw-2 horse to a trot.\expndtw-1\par
\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\f2\fs20\par
}
 