{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f28\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f29\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\f31\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f32\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f33\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f34\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}
{\f35\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s2\ql \fi288\li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \cbpat8 
\b\fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\title C-Chute}{\author SeaGull}{\operator SeaGull}{\creatim\yr2000\mo9\dy14\hr22\min30}
{\revtim\yr2000\mo9\dy14\hr22\min30}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages21}{\nofwords11073}{\nofchars63121}{\*\company Chaos Inc}{\nofcharsws77517}{\vern8247}}\paperw11916\paperh16800\margl720\margr720\margt3125\margb1354 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace120\dgvspace163\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow2
\jexpand\viewkind4\viewscale137\viewzk2\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \psz9\linex0\headery3125\sectlinegrid326\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s2\ql \fi288\li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \cbpat8 \b\fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
C-Chute
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi288\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \cbpat8 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cf1\charscalex81 
\par Copyright \'a9 1951 by Galaxy Publishing Corporation.
\par }{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex97 Even from the cabin into which he and the other passengers had been }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1\charscalex97 herded, Colonel Anthony Windham could still catch the essence of the }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1\charscalex97 
battle's progress. For a while, there was silence, no jolting, which meant the }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1\charscalex97 spaceships were fighting at astronomical distance in a duel of energy blasts }{\expnd-2\expndtw-13\cf1\charscalex97 
and powerful force-field defenses.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1\charscalex97 He knew that could have only one end. Their Earth ship was only an }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1\charscalex97 armed merchantman and his glimpse of the Kloro enemy just before he had }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1\charscalex97 
been cleared off deck by the crew was sufficient to show it to be a light }{\expnd-3\expndtw-17\cf1\charscalex97 cruiser.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1\charscalex97 And in less than half an hour, there came those hard little shocks he was waiting for. The passengers swayed back and forth as the ship pitched and }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1\charscalex97 veered, a
s though it were an ocean liner in a storm. But space was calm and }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1\charscalex97 silent as ever. It was their pilot sending desperate bursts of steam through }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex97 
the steam-tubes, so that by reaction the ship would be sent rolling and }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1\charscalex97 tumbling. It could only mean that the inevitable had occurred. The Earth }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1\charscalex97 
ship's screens had been drained and it no longer dared withstand a direct }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1\charscalex97 hit.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1\charscalex97 Colonel Windham tried to steady himself with his aluminum cane. He }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1\charscalex97 was thinking that he was an old man; that he had spent his life in the militi
a and had never seen a battle; that now, with a battle going on around him, he }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1\charscalex97 was old and fat and lame and had no men under his command.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1\charscalex97 They would be boarding soon, those Kloro monsters. It was their way of }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1\charscalex97 fighting. They would be handicapped by spacesuits and their casualties}{ }{\cf1\charscalex85 
would be high, but they wanted the Earth ship. Windham considered the passengers. For a moment, he thought, }{\i\cf1\charscalex85 if they were armed and I could lead }{\i\cf1\charscalex84 them\emdash }{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex85 He abandoned the thought. Porter was in an obvious state of funk and the young boy, Leblanc, was hardly better. The Polyorketes brothers\emdash dash it, he }{\i\cf1\charscalex85 couldn 't }{\cf1\charscalex85 tell them apart\emdash 
huddled in a corner speaking only to one another. Mullen was a different matter. He sat perfectly erect, with no signs }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex85 of fear or any other emotion in his face. But the man was just about five feet }{\cf1\charscalex85 
tall and had undoubtedly never held a gun of any sort in his hands in all his life. He could do nothing.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex85 And there was Stuart, with his frozen half-smile and the high-pitched sarcasm which saturated all he said. Windham l
ooked sidelong at Stuart now as Stuart sat there, pushing his dead-white hands through his sandy hair. With those artificial hands he was useless, anyway.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex85 Windham felt the shuddering vibration of ship-to-ship contact; and in five minutes, there was the noi
se of the fight through the corridors. One of the Polyorketes brothers screamed and dashed for the door. The other called, "Aristides! Wait!" and hurried after.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex85 It happened so quickly. Aristides was out the door and into the corridor, }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex85 running in brainless panic. A carbonizer glowed briefly and there was never }{\cf1\charscalex85 
even a scream. Windham, from the doorway, turned in horror at the black\-ened stump of what was left. Strange\emdash a lifetime in uniform and he had never before seen a man killed in violence.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex85 It took the combined force of the rest to carry the other brother back struggling into the room.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex85 The noise of battle subsided.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex85 Stuart said, "That's it. They'll put a prize crew of two aboard and take us to one of their home planets. We're prisoners of war, naturally."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex85 "Only two of the Kloros will stay aboard?" asked Windham, astonished.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex85 Stuart said, "It is their custom. Why do you ask, Colonel? Thinking of leading a gallant raid to retake the ship?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex85 Windham flushed. "Simply a point of information, dash it." But the }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex85 dignity and tone of authority he tried to assume failed him, he knew. He was }{\cf1\charscalex85 simply an old man with a limp.}{

\par }{\cf1\charscalex85 And Stuart was probably right. He had lived among the Kloros and knew }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex85 their ways.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex85 John Stuart had claimed from the beginning that the Kloros were gentle\-m
en. Twenty-four hours of imprisonment had passed, and now he repeated the statement as he flexed the fingers of his hands and watched the crinkles come and go in the soft artiplasm.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex85 He enjoyed the unpleasant reaction it aroused in the others. People were made to be punctured; windy bladders, all of them. And they had hands of the same stuff as their bodies.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1 There was Anthony Windham, in particular. Colonel Windham, he }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 called himself, and Stuart was willing to believe it. A retired colonel who }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 had probably d
rilled a home guard militia on a village green, forty years ago, }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 with such lack of distinction that he was not called back to service in any }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
capacity, even during the emergency of Earth's first interstellar war.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 "Dashed unpleasant thing to be saying about the enemy, Stuart. Don't }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1 know that I like your attitude." Windham seemed to push the words }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
through his clipped mustache. His head had been shaven, too, in imitation }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 of the current military style, but now a gray stubble was beginning to show }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 about a centere
d bald patch. His flabby cheeks dragged downward. That and }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 the fine red lines on his thick nose gave him a somewhat undone appear\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 ance, as though he had been wakened too suddenly and too early in the }{
\expnd-3\expndtw-15\cf1 morning.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 Stuart said, "Nonsense. Just reverse the present situation. Suppose an }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 Earth warship had taken a Kloro liner. What do you think would have }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 happened to any Kloro civilians aboard?"}
{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "I'm sure the Earth fleet would observe all the interstellar rules of war," }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 Windham said stiffly.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 "Except that there aren't any. If we landed a prize crew on one of their }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 ships, do you think we'd take the trouble to maintain a chlorine atmosphere }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 
for the benefit of the survivors; allow them to keep their non-contraband }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 possessions; give them the use of the most comfortable stateroom, etcetera, }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 etcetera, etcetera?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 Ben Porter said, "Oh, shut up, for God's sake. If I hear your etcetera, }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 etcetera once again, I'll go nuts."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Stuart said, "Sorry!" He wasn't.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Porter was scarcely responsible. His thin face and beaky nose glistened }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 with perspiration, and he kept biting the inside of his cheek until he sud\-}{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 
denly winced. He put his tongue against the sore spot, which made him look }{\expnd-2\expndtw-12\cf1 even more clownish.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 Stuart was growing weary of baiting them. Windham was too flabby a }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 target and Porter could do nothing but writhe. The rest were silent. Deme-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 
trios Polyorketes was off in a world of silent internal grief for the moment. He had not slept the night before, most probably. At least, whenever Stuart }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 woke to change his position\emdash he himself had been rather restless
\emdash there }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 had been Poryorketes' thick mumble from the next cot. It said many things, }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1 but the moan to which it returned over and over again was, "Oh, my }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 brother!"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 He sat dumbly on his cot now, his red eyes rolling at the other prisoners }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 out of his broad swarthy, unshaven face. As Stuart watched, his face sank }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 
into calloused palms so that only his mop of crisp and curly black hair could }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 be seen. He rocked gently, but now that they were all awake, he made no }{\expnd-3\expndtw-17\cf1 sound.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Claude Leblanc was trying very unsuccessfully, to read a letter. He was}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 the youngest of the six, scarcely out of college, returning to Earth to get }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 married. Stuart had found him that morning weeping quietly, his pink and }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 
white face flushed and blotched as though it were a heartbroken child's. He }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 was very fair, with almost a girl's beauty about his large blue eyes and full }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 
lips. Stuart wondered what kind of girl it was who had promised to be his }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1 wife. He had seen her picture. Who on the ship had not? She had the }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 characterless prettiness that m
akes all pictures of fiancees indistinguishable. }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 It seemed to Stuart that if he were a girl, however, he would want someone a little more pronouncedly masculine.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 That left only Randolph Mullen. Stuart frankly did not have the least }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 idea what to make of him. He was the only one of the six that had been on }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 
the Arcturian worlds for any length of time. Stuart, himself, for instance, }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 had been there only long enough to give a series of lectures on astronautical }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
engineering at the provincial engineering institute. Colonel Windham had }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 been on a Cook's tour; Porter was trying to buy concentrated alien vegeta\-
bles for his canneries on Earth; and the Polyorketes brothers had attempted to establish themselves in Arcturus as truck farmers and, after two growing }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 seasons, gave it up, had somehow unloaded at a profit, and were returning to 
}{\expnd-2\expndtw-12\cf1 Earth.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Randolph Mullen, however, had been in the Arcturian system for seven\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1 teen years. How did voyagers discover so much about one another so }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 
quickly? As far as Stuart knew, the little man had scarcely spoken aboard }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 ship. He was unfailingly polite, always stepped to one side to allow another }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
to pass, but his entire vocabulary appeared to consist only of "Thank you" and "Pardon me." Yet the word had gone around that this was his first trip }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 to Earth in seventeen yeais.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 He was a little man, very precise, almost irritatingly so. Upon awaking }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 that morning, he had made his cot neatly, shaved, bathed and dressed. The }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 
habit of years seemed not in the least disturbed by the fact that he was a }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1 prisoner of the Kloros now. He was unobtrusive about it, it had to be }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
admitted, and gave no impression of disapproving of the sloppiness of the }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 others. He simply sat there, almost apologetic, trussed in his overconserva-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 tive clothing, and hands loosely clasped i
n his lap. The thin line of hair on }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 his upper lip, far from adding character to his face, absurdly increased its }{\expnd-3\expndtw-16\cf1 primness.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 He looked like someone's idea of a caricature of a bookkeeper. And the }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 queer thing about it all, Stuart thought, was that that was exactly what he }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 
was. He had noticed it on the registry\emdash Randolph Fluellen Mullen; occupa\-tion, bookkeeper; employers, Prime Paper Box Co.; 27 Tobias Avenue, New }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Warsaw, Arcturus II.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 "Mr. Stuart?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Stuart looked up. It was Leblanc, his lower lip trembling slightly. Stuart}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 tried to remember how one went about being gentle. He said, "What is it, }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex91 Leblanc?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 "Tell me, when will they let us go?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 "How should I know?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 "Everyone says you lived on a Kloro planet, and just now you said they }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex91 were gentlemen."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex91 "Well, yes. But even gentlemen fight wars in order to win. Probably, we'll }{\cf1\charscalex91 be interned for the duration."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 "But that could be }{\i\cf1\charscalex91 years! }{\cf1\charscalex91 Margaret is waiting. She'll think I'm }{\i\cf1\charscalex91 dead!"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 "I suppose they'll allow messages to be sent through once we're on their }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex91 planet."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 Porter's hoarse voice sounded in agitation. "Look here, if you know so }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex91 much about these devils, what will they do to us while we're interned? What }{\cf1\charscalex91 
will they feed us? Where will they get oxygen for us? They'll kill us, I tell you." And as an afterthought, "I've got a wife waiting for me, too," he }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1\charscalex91 added.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 But Stuart had heard him speaking of his wife in the days before the attack. He wasn't impressed. Porter's nail-bitten fingers were pulling and }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex91 
plucking at Stuart's sleeve. Stuart drew away in sharp revulsion. He couldn't }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 stand those ugly hands. It angered him to desperation that such monstrosi\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex91 
ties should be real while his own white and perfectly shaped hands were only }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 mocking imitations grown out of an alien latex.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex91 He said, "They won't kill us. If they were going to, th
ey would have done it before now. Look, we capture Kloros too, you know, and it's just a matter of common sense to treat your prisoners decently if you want the other side }{\cf1\charscalex91 
to be decent to your men. They'll do their best. The food may not be very good, but they're better chemists than we are. It's what they're best at. }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 
They'll know exactly what food factors we'll need and how many calories. }{\cf1\charscalex91 We'll live. They'll see to that."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 Windham rumbled, "You sound more and more like a blasted greenie }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex91 sympathizer, Stuart. It turns my stomach to hear an Earthman speak well of }{\cf1\charscalex91 
the green fellas the way you've been doing. Burn it, man, where's your }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1\charscalex91 loyalty?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 "My loyalty's where it belongs. With honesty and decency, regardless of }{\cf1\charscalex91 the shape of the being it appears in." Stuart held up his hands. "See these? }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex91 
Kloros made them. I lived on one of their planets for six months. My hands were mangled in the conditioning machinery of my own quarters. I thought }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 the oxygen supply they gave me was a little poor\emdash 
it wasn't, by the way\emdash  }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex91 and I tried making the adjustments on my own. It was my fault. You should }{\cf1\charscalex91 never trust yourself with the machines of another culture. By the time }{
\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 someone among the Kloros could put on an atmosphere suit and get to me, it was too late to save my hands.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 "They grew these artiplasm things for me and operated. You know what }{\cf1\charscalex91 that meant? It meant designing equipment and nutrient solutions that}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 would work in oxygen atmosphere. It meant that their surgeons had to }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 perform a delicate operation while dressed in atmosphere suits. And now }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 
I've got hands again." He laughed harshly, and clenched them into weak }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 fists. "Hands\emdash "}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 Windham said, "And you'd sell your loyalty to Earth for that?"}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 "Sell my loyalty? You're mad. For years, I hated the Kloros for this. I was }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 a master pilot on the Trans-Galactic Spacelines before it happened. Now? }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 
Desk job. Or an occasional lecture. It took me a long time to pin the fault }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 on myself and to realize that the only role played by the Kloros was a decent }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 one. They have their code of ethics, and it's as
 good as ours. If it weren't for }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 the stupidity of some of their people\emdash and, by God, of some of ours\emdash we }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 wouldn't be at war. And after it's over\emdash "}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Polyorketes was on his feet. His thick fingers curved inward before him }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 and his dark eyes glittered. "I don't like what you say, mister."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 "Why don't you?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1 "Because you talk too nice about these damned green bastards. The }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 Kloros were good to you, eh? Well, they weren't good to my brother. They }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
killed him. I think maybe I kill you, you damned greenie spy."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 And he charged.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 Stuart barely had time to raise his arms to meet the infuriated farmer. He }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 gasped out, "What the hell\emdash " as he caught one wrist and heaved a shoul\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 
der to block the other which groped toward his throat.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 His artiplasm hand gave way. Polyorketes wrenched free with scarcely an }{\expnd-2\expndtw-14\cf1 effort.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Windham was bellowing incoherently, and Leblanc was calling out in his }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
reedy voice, "Stop it! Stop it!" But it was little Mulkn who threw his arms about the farmer's neck from behind and pulled with all his might. He was }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 not very effective; Polyorketes seemed scarcely aware of the little man's }{
\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 weight upon his back. Mullen's feet left the floor so that he tossed helplessly }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 to right and left. But he held his grip and it hampered Polyorketes suffi\-}{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 
ciently to allow Stuart to break free long enough to grasp Windham's alumi\-}{\expnd-2\expndtw-12\cf1 num cane.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 He said, "Stay away, Polyorketes."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 He was gasping for breath and fearful of another rush. The hollow alumi\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 num cylinder was scarcely heavy enough to accomplish much, but it was }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 better than having only hi
s weak hands to defend himself with.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 Mullen had loosed his hold and was now circling cautiously, his breathing }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 roughened and his jacket in disarray.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 Polyorketes, for a moment, did not move. He stood there, his shaggy head }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 bent low. Then he said, "It is no 
use. I must kill Kloros. Just watch your tongue, Stuart. If it keeps on rattling too much, you're liable to get hurt. }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Really hurt, I mean."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 Stuart passed a forearm over his forehead and thrust the cane back at}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 Windham, who seized it with his left hand, while mopping his bald pate }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 vigorously with a handkerchief in his right.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Windham said, "Gentlemen, we must avoid this. It lowers our prestige. }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 We must remember the common enemy. We are Earthmen and we must }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 act what we are\emdash 
the ruling race of the Galaxy. We dare not demean our\-}{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 selves before the lesser breeds."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1 "Yes, Colonel," said Stuart, wearily. "Give us the rest of the speech }{\expnd-2\expndtw-14\cf1 tomorrow."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 He turned to Mullen, "I want to say thanks."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 He was uncomfortable about it, but he had to. The little accountant had }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 surprised him completely.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 But Mullen said, in a dry voice that scarcely raised above a whisper, }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "Don't thank me, Mr. Stuart. It was the logical thing to do. If we are to be }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 
interned, we would need you as an interpreter, perhaps, one who would }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 understand the Kloros."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Stuart stiffened. It was, he thought, too much of the bookkeeper type of }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 reasoning, too logical, too dry of juice. Present risk and ultimate advantage. }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 
The assets and debits balanced neatly. He would have liked Mullen to leap }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 to his defense out of\emdash well, out of what? Out of pure, unselfish decency?}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Stuart laughed silently at himself. He was beginning to expect idealism of human beings, rather than good, straight-forward, self-centered motivation.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 Polyorketes was numb. His sorrow and rage were like acid inside him, but }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 
they had no words to get out. If he were Stuart, big-mouth, white-hands Stuart, he could talk and talk and maybe feel better. Instead, he had to sit }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 there with half of him dead; with no brother, no Aristides\emdash }{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 It had happened so quickly. If he could only go back and have one second }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 more warning, so that he might snatch Aristides, hold him, save him.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 But mostly he hated the Kloros. Two months ago, he had hardly ever }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 heard of them, and now he hated them so hard, he would be glad to die if }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 he could kill a few.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 He said, without looking up, "What happened to start this war, eh?"}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 He was afraid Stuart's voice would answer. He hated Stuart's voice. But it }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 was Windham, the bald one.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 Windham said, "The immediate cause, sir, was a dispute over mining }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 concessions in the Wyandotte system. The Kloros had poached on Earth }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 property."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "Room for both, Colonel!"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 Polyorketes looked up at that, snarling. Stuart could not be kept quiet for }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 long. He was speaking again; the cripple-hand, wiseguy, Kloros-lover.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Stuart was saying, "Is that anything to fight over, Colonel? We can't use }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 one another's worlds. Their chlorine planets are useless to us and our oxygen }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 
ones are useless to them. Chlorine is deadly to us and oxygen is deadly to }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 them. There's no way we could maintain permanent hostility. Our races just}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 don't coincide. Is there reason to fight then because both races want to dig }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 iron out of the same airless planetoids when there are millions like them in }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 the Galaxy?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 Windham said, "There is the question of planetary honor\emdash "}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "Planetary fertilizer. How can it excuse a ridiculous war like this one? It can only be fought on outposts. It has to come down to a series of holding }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 
actions and eventually be settled by negotiations that might just as easily }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 have been worked out in the first place. Neither we nor the Kloros will gain }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 a thing."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 Grudgingly, Polyorketes found that he agreed with Stuart. What did he }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 and Aristides care where Earth or the Kloros got their iron?}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Was that something for Aristides to die over?}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 The little warning buzzer sounded.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Polyorketes' head shot up and he rose slowly, his lips drawing back. Only }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 one thing could be at the door. He waited, arms tense, fists balled. Stuart }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
was edging toward him. Polyorketes saw that and laughed to himself. Let }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 the Kloro come in, and Stuart, along with all the rest, could not stop him.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Wait, Aristides, wait just a moment, and a fraction of revenge will be paid }{\expnd-3\expndtw-17\cf1 back.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 The door opened and a figure entered, completely swathed in a shapeless, billowing travesty of a spacesuit.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 An odd, unnatural, but not entirely unpleasant voice began, "It is with }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 some misgivings, Earthmen, that my companion and myself\emdash "}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 It ended abruptly as Polyorketes, with a roar, charged once again. There was no science in the lunge. It was sheer bull-momentum. Dark head low, }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 
burly arms spread out with the hair-tufted fingers in choking position, he }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1 clumped on. Stuart was whirled to one side before he had a chance to }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 intervene, and was spun tumbling across a cot.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 The Kloro might have, without undue exertion, straight-armed Poly\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 orketes to a halt, or stepped aside, allowing the whirlwind to pass. He did }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 
neither. With a rapid movement, a hand-weapon was up and a gentle pink\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 ish line of radiance connected it with the plunging Earthman. Polyorketes stumbled and crashed down, his body maintaining its last curved position, }{
\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 one foot raised, as though a lightning paralysis had taken place. It toppled to }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 one side and he lay there, eyes all alive and wild with rage.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 The Kloro said, "He is not permanently hurt." He seemed not to resent }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 the offered violence. Then he began again, "It is with some misgiving, }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 
Earthmen, that my companion and myself were made aware of a certain }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 commotion in this room. Are you in any need which we can satisfy?"}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 Stuart was angrily nursing his knee which he had scraped in colliding with }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 the cot. He said, "No, thank you, Kloro."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "Now, look here," puffed Windham, "this is a dashed outrage. We de\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 mand that our release be arranged."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 The Kloro's tiny, insectlike head turned in the fat old man's direction. He}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 was not a pleasant sight to anyone unused to him. He was about the height of an Earthman, but the top of him consisted of a thin stalk of a neck with a }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 
head that was the merest swelling. It consisted of a blunt triangular probos\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 cis in front and two bulging eyes on either side. That was all. There was no }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 
brain pan and no brain. What corresponded to the brain in a Kloro was }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 located in what would be an Earthly abdomen, leaving the head as a mere }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 sensory organ. The Kloro's spacesuit followed the outlines of 
the head more }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 or less faithfully, the two eyes being exposed by two clear semicircles of }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 glass, which looked faintly green because of the chlorine atmosphere inside.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 One of the eyes was now cocked squarely at Windham, who quivered }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 uncomfortably under the glance, but insisted, "You have no right to hold us }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 prisoner. We are noncombatants."}{

\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 The Kloro's voice, sounding thoroughly artificial, came from a small at\-}{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 tachment of chromium mesh on what served as its chest. The voice box was }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 manipulated by compressed a
ir under the control of one or two of the many }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 delicate, forked tendrils that radiated from two circles about its upper body and were, mercifully enough, hidden by the suit.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-12\cf1 The voice said, "Are you serious, Earthman? Surely you have heard of war }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 and rules of war and prisoners of war."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 It looked about, shifting eyes with quick jerks of its head, staring at a }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 particular object first with one, then with another. It was Stuart's under\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 
standing that each eye transferred a separate message to the abdominal }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 brain, which had to coordinate the two to obtain full information.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1 Windham had nothing to say. No one had. The Kloro, its four main }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 limbs, roughly arms and legs in pairs, had a vaguely human appearance under the masking of the suit, if you looked no higher than
 its chest, but }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 there was no way of telling what it felt.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 They watched it turn and leave.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Porter coughed and said in a strangled voice, "God, smell that chlorine. If }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 they don't do something, we'll all die of rotted lungs."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 Stuart said, "Shut up. There isn't enough chlorine in the air to make a }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 mosquito sneeze, and what there is will be swept out in two minutes. Be\-
sides, a little chlorine is good for you. It may kill your cold virus."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 Windham coughed and said, "Stuart, I feel that you might have said }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 something to your Kloro friend about releasing us. You are scarcely as bold }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 
in their presence, dash it, as you are once they are gone."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "You heard what the creature said, Colonel. We're prisoners of war, and prisoner exchanges are negotiated by diplomats. We'll just have to wait."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 Leblanc, who had turned pasty white at the entrance of the Kloro, rose and hurried into the privy. There was the sound of retching.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 An uncomfortable silence fell while Stuart tried to think of something to }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 say to cover the unpleasant sound. Mullen filled in. He had rummaged }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
through a little box he had taken from under his pillow.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 He said, "Perhaps Mr. Leblanc had better take a sedative before retiring. }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 I have a few. I'd be glad to give him one." He explained his generosity }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 immediately, "
Otherwise he may keep the rest of us awake, you see."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 "Very logical," said Stuart, dryly. "You'd better save one for Sir Launcelot }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 here; save half a dozen." He walked to where Polyorketes still sprawled and }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
knelt at his side. "Comfortable, baby?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 Windham said, "Deuced poor taste speaking like that, Stuart."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "Well, if you're so concerned about him, why don't you and Porter hoist }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 him onto his cot?"}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 He helped them do so. Polyorketes' arms were trembling erratically now. From what Stuart knew of the Kloro's nerve weapons, the man should be in }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 an agony of pins and needles about now.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Stuart said, "And don't be too gentle with him, either. The damned fool might have gotten us all killed. And for what?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 He pushed Polyorketes' stiff carcass to one side and sat at the edge of the }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 cot. He said, "Can you hear me, Polyorketes?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 Polyorketes' eyes gleamed. An arm lifted abortively and fell back.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 "Okay then, listen. Don't try anything like that again. The next time it }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 may be the finish for all of us. If you had been a Kloro and he had been an }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 
Earthman, we'd be dead now. So just get one thing through your skull. }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 We're sorry about your brother and it's a rotten shame, but it was his own }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 fault."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Polyorketes tried to heave and Stuart pushed him back.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "No, you keep on listening," he said. "Maybe this is the only time I'll get }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 to talk to you when you }{\i\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 have }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 to listen. Your brother had no right leaving }{
\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 passenger's quarters. There was no place for him to go. He just got in the }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 way of our own men. We don't even know for certain that it was a Kloro gun }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 
that killed him. It might have been one of our own."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 "Oh, I say, Stuart," objected Windham.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 Stuart whirled at him. "Do you have proof it wasn't? Did you see the }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 shot? Could you tell from what was left of the body whether it was Kloro }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 energy or Earth energy?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 Polyorketes found his voice, driving his unwilling tongue into a fuzzy }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 verbal snarl. "Damned stinking greenie bastard."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "Me?" said Stuart. "I know what's going on in your mind, Polyorketes. You think that}{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1\super 1}{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1  when the paralysis wears off, you'll ease your feelings by }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 
slamming me around. Well, if you do, it will probably be curtains for all of }{\expnd-3\expndtw-15\cf1 us."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 He rose, put his back against the wall. For the moment, he was fighting }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 all of them. "None of you know the Kloros the way I do. The physical }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 differ
ences you see are not important. The differences in their temperament }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 are. They don't understand our views on sex, for instance. To them, it's just a biological reflex like breathing. They attach no importance to it. But they }{
\i\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 do }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 attach importance to social groupings. Remember, their evolutionary}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 ancestors had lots in common with our insects. They always assume that any }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 group of Earthmen they find together makes up a social unit.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 "That means just about everything to them. I don't understand exactly }{\i\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 what }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 it means. No Earthman can. But the result is that they never break up }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
a group, just as we don't separate a mother and her children if we can help it. One of the reasons they may be treating us with kid gloves right now is }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 that they imagine we're all broken up 
over the fact that they killed one of us, }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 and they feel guilt about it.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 "But this is what you'll have to remember. We're going to be interned }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 together and }{\i\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 kept }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 together for duration. I don't like the thought. I wouldn't }{
\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 have picked any of you for co-internees and I'm pretty sure none of you }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 would have picked me. But there it is. The Kloros could never understand }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 
that our being together on the ship is only accidental.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 "That means we've got to get along somehow. That's not just goodie-}{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1 goodie talk about birds in their little nest agreeing. What do you think }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 
would have happened if the Kloros had come in earlier and found Poly-}{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 orketes and myself trying to kill each other? You don't know? Well, what do }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 you suppose }{\i\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 you }{
\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 would think of a mother you caught trying to kill her }{\expnd-2\expndtw-14\cf1 children?}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 "That's it, then. They would have killed every one of us as a bunch of }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 Kloro-type perverts and monsters. Got that? How about you, Polyorketes? }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Have }{\i\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 
you }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 got it? So let's call names if we have to, but let's keep our hands to }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 ourselves. And now, if none of you mind, I'll massage my hands back into }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 shape\emdash 
these synthetic hands that I got from the Kloros and that one of my }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 own kind tried to mangle again."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 For Claude Leblanc, the worst was over. He had been sick enough; sick }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 with many things; but sick most of all over having ever left Earth. It had }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
been a great thing to go to college off Earth. It had been an adventure and }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 had taken him away from his mother. Somehow, he had been sneakingly glad to make that escape after the first month of frightened adjustment.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 And then on the summer holidays, he had been no longer Claude, the }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 
shy-spoken scholar, but Leblanc, space traveler. He had swaggered the fact for all it was worth. It made him feel such a man to talk of stars and Jumps and the customs and environments of other worlds; it had given him cork\-
age with Margaret. She had loved him for the dangers he had undergone\emdash }{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 Except that this had been the first one, really, and he had not done so }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 well. He knew it and was ashamed and wished he were like Stuart.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 He used the excuse of mealtime to approach. He said, "Mr. Stuart."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Stuart looked up and said shortly, "How do you feel?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Leblanc felt himself blush. He blushed easily and the effort not to blush }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 only made it worse. He said, "Much better, thank you. We are eating. I }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 thought I'd bring you your ration,"
}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 Stuart took the offered }{\i\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 can, }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 It was standard space ration; thoroughly}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex93 synthetic, concentrated, nourishing and, somehow, unsatisfying. It heated }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex93 automatically when the can was opened, but could be eaten cold, if neces\-}{
\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex93 sary. Though a combined fork-spoon utensil was enclosed, the ration was of }{\cf1\charscalex93 a consistency that made the use of fingers practical and not particularly }{\expnd-3\expndtw-16\cf1\charscalex93 messy.}{

\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex93 Stuart said, "Did you hear my little speech?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex93 "Yes, sir. I want you to know you can count on me."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex93 "Well, good. Now go and eat."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex93 "May I eat here?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex93 "Suit yourself."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex93 For a moment, they ate in silence, and then Leblanc burst out, "You are so sure of yourself, Mr. Stuart! It must be very wonderful to be like that!"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex93 "Sure of myself? Thanks, but there's your self-assured one."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex93 Leblanc followed the direction of the nod in surprise. "Mr. Mullen? That }{\cf1\charscalex93 little man? Oh, no!"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex93 "You don't think he's self-assured?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex93 Leblanc shook his head. He looked at Stuart intently to see if he could }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex93 detect humor in his expression. "That one is just cold. He has no emotion in }{
\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex93 him. He's like a little machine. I find him repulsive. You're different, Mr. }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex93 Stuart. You have it all inside, but you control it. I would like to be like that."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex93 And as though attracted by the magnetism of the mention, even though }{\cf1\charscalex93 unheard, of his name, Mullen joined them. His can of ration was barely }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex93 
touched. It was still steaming gently as he squatted opposite them.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex93 His voice had its usual quality of furtively rustling underbrush. "How }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex93 long, Mr. Stuart, do you think the trip will take?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex93 "Can't say, Mullen. They'll undoubtedly be avoiding the usual trade }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex93 routes and they'll be making more Jumps through hyper-space than usual to }{\cf1\charscalex93 
throw off possible pursuit. I wouldn't be surprised if it took as long as a week. Why do you ask? I presume you have a very practical and logical }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1\charscalex93 reason?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex93 "Why, yes. Certainly." He seemed quite shellbacked to sarcasm. He said, }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex93 "It occurred to me that it might be wise to ration the rations, so to speak."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex93 "We've got enough food and water for a month. I checked on that first }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex93 thing."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex93 "I see. In that case, I will finish the can." He did, using the all-purpose }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex93 utensil daintily and patting a handkerchief against his unstained lips from }{
\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex93 time to time.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex93 Polyorketes struggled to his feet some two hours later. He swayed a bit, }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex93 looking like the Spirit of Hangover. He did not try to come closer to Stuart, }{
\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex93 but spoke from where he stood.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex93 He said, "You stinking greenie spy, you watch yourself."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex93 "You heard what I said before, Polyorketes."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex93 "I heard. But I also heard what you said about Aristides. I won't bother}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 with you, because you're a bag of nothing but noisy air. But wait, someday }{\cf1\charscalex91 you'll blow your air in one face too many and it will be let out of you."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 "I'll wait," said Stuart.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 Windham hobbled over, leaning heavily on his cane. "Now, now," he }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex91 called with a wheezing joviality that overkid his sweating anxiety so thinly as }{\cf1\charscalex91 
to emphasize it. "We're all Earthmen, dash it. Got to remember that; keep }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex91 it as a glowing light of inspiration. Never let down before the blasted Kloros. }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 
We've got to forget private feuds and remember only that we are Earthmen united against alien blighters."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 Stuart's comment was unprintable.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 Porter was right behind Windham. He had been in a close conference }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex91 with the shaven-headed colonel for an hour, and now he said with indigna\-}{\cf1\charscalex91 
tion, "It doesn't help to be a wiseguy, Stuart. You listen to the colonel. We've been doing some hard thinking about the situation."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex91 He had washed some of the grease off his face, wet his hair and slicked it }{\cf1\charscalex91 back. It did not remove the little tic on his right cheek just at the point }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex91 
where his lips ended, or make his hangnail hands more attractive in appear\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1\charscalex91 ance.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 "All right, Colonel," said Stuart. "What's on your mind?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 Windham said, "I'd prefer to have all the men together."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 "Okay, call them."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 Leblanc hurried over; Mullen approached with greater deliberation.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 Stuart said, "You want that fellow?" He jerked his head at Polyorketes.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 "Why, yes. Mr. Polyorketes, may we have you, old fella?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 "Ah, leave me alone."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 "Go ahead," said Stuart, "leave him alone. I don't want him."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 "No, no," said Windham. "This is a matter for all Earthmen. Mr. Poly\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 orketes, we must have you."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 Polyorketes rolled off one side of his cot. "I'm close enough, I can hear }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1\charscalex91 you."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 Windham said to Stuart, "Would they\emdash the Kloros, I mean\emdash have this }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex91 room wired?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 "No," said Stuart. "Why should they?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex91 "Are you sure?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 "Of course I'm sure. They didn't know what happened when Polyorketes }{\cf1\charscalex91 jumped me. They just heard the thumping when it started rattling the }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex91 ship."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 "Maybe they were trying to give us the impression the room wasn't }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex91 wired."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 "Listen, Colonel, I've never known a Kloro to tell a deliberate lie\emdash "}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 Polyorketes interrupted calmly, "That lump of noise just }{\i\cf1\charscalex91 loves }{\cf1\charscalex91 the }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1\charscalex91 Kloros."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 Windham said hastily, "Let's not begin that. Look, Stuart, Porter and I}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 have been discussing matters and we have decided that you know the Kloros }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 well enough to think of some way of getting us back to Earth."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 "It happens that you're wrong. I can't think of any way."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 "Maybe there is some way we can take the ship back from the blasted }{\expnd-2\expndtw-12\cf1 green fellas," suggested Windham. "Some weakness they may have. Dash it, }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 you know what I mean."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 "Tell me, Colonel, what are you after? Your own skin or Earth's welfare?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "I resent that question. I'll have you know that while I'm as careful of my own life as anyone has a right to be, I'm thinking of Earth primarily. And I }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 think that's true of all of us."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 "Damn right," said Porter, instantly. Leblanc looked anxious, Polyorketes }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 resentful; and Mullen had no expression at all.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1 "Good," said Stuart. "Of course, I don't think we can take the ship. }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 They're armed and we aren't. But there's this. You know why the Kloros }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1 
took this ship intact. It's because they need ships. They may be better }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 chemists than Earthmen are, but Earthmen are better astronautical engi\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 
neers. We have bigger, better and more ships. In fact, if our crew had had a }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 proper respect for military axioms in the first place, they would have blown }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 
the ship up as soon as it looked as though the Kloros were going to board."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Leblanc looked horrified. "And kill the passengers?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "Why not? You heard what the good colonel said. Every one of us puts }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 his own lousy little life after Earth's interests. What good are we to Earth }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 
alive right now? None at all. What harm will this ship do in Kloro hands? A }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 hell of a lot, probably."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 "Just why," asked Mullen, "did our men refuse to blow up the ship? They }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 must have had a reason."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 "They did. It's the firmest tradition of Earth's military men that there }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 must never be an unfavorable ratio of casualties. If we had blown ourselves }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 
up, twenty fighting men and seven civilians of Earth would be dead as }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 compared with an enemy casualty total of zero. So what happens? We let them board, kill twenty-eight\emdash I'm sure we killed at least that many\emdash and }{
\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 let them have the ship."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "Talk, talk, talk," jeered Polyorketes.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "There's a moral to this," said Stuart. "We can't take the ship away from }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 the Kloros. We }{\i\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 might }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 be able to rush them, though, and keep them busy }{
\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 long enough to allow one of us enough time to short the engines."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "What?" yelled Porter, and Windham shushed him in fright.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 "Short the engines," Stuart repeated. "That would destroy the ship, of }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 course, which is what we want to do, isn't it?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 Leblanc's lips were white. "I don't think that would work."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "We can't be sure till we try. But what have we to lose by trying?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "Our lives, damn it!" cried Porter. "You insane maniac, you're crazy!"}{
\par }{\expnd1\expndtw6\cf1 "If}{\cf1  }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 I'm a maniac," said Stuart, "and insane to boot, then naturally I'm }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 crazy. But just remember that if we lose our lives, which is overwhelmingly}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 probable, we lose nothing of value to Earth; whereas if we destroy the ship, }{\cf1\charscalex90 as we just barely might, we do Earth a lot of good. What patriot would }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex90 
hesitate? Who here would put himself ahead of his world?" He looked about }{\cf1\charscalex90 in the silence. "Surely not you, Colonel Windham."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 Windham coughed tremendously. "My dear man, that is not the ques\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex90 tion. There must be a way to save the ship for Earth }{\i\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex90 without }{
\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex90 losing our lives, }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex90 eh?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 "All right. You name it."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 "Let's all think about it. Now there are only two of the Kloros aboard ship. If one of us could sneak up on them and\emdash "}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 "How? The rest of the ship's all filled with chlorine. We'd have to wear a }{\cf1\charscalex90 spacesuit. Gravity in their part of the ship is hopped up to Kloro level, so whoever is patsy in the
 deal would be clumping around, metal on metal, }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex90 slow and heavy. Oh, he could sneak up on them, sure\emdash like a skunk trying to sneak downwind."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 "Then we'll drop it all," Porter's voice shook. "Listen, Windham, there's not going to be any destroying the ship. My life means plenty to me and if any of you try anything like that, I'll call the Kloros. I mean it."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 "Well," said Stuart, "there's hero number one."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 Leblanc said, "I want to go back to Earth, but I\emdash "}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 Mullen interrupted, "I don't think our chances of destroying the ship are }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex90 good enough unless\emdash "}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 "Heroes number two and three. What about you, Polyorketes, You would }{\cf1\charscalex90 have the chance of killing two Kloros."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 "I want to kill them with my bare hands," growled the farmer, his heavy fists writhing. "On their planet, I will kill dozens."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 "That's a nice safe promise for now. What about you, Colonel? Don't you want to march to death and glory with me?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 "Your attitude is very cynical and unbecoming, Stuart. It's obvious that if }{\cf1\charscalex90 the rest are unwilling, then your plan will fall through."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 "Unless I do it myself, huh?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 "You won't, do you hear?" said Porter, instantly.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 "Damn right I won't," agreed Stuart. "I don't claim to be a hero. I'm just an average patriot, perfectly willing to head for any planet they take me to and sit out the war."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 Mullen said, thoughtfully, "Of course, there is a way we could surprise }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex90 the Kloros."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 The statement would have dropped flat except for Polyorketes. He pointed a black-nailed, stubby forefinger and laughed harshly. "Mr. Book\-keeper!" he said. "Mr
. Bookkeeper is a big shot talker like this damned greenie spy, Stuart. All right, Mr. Bookkeeper, go ahead. You make big speeches also. Let the words roll like an empty barrel."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 He turned to Stuart and repeated venomously, "Empty barrel! Cripple-hand empty barrel. No good for anything but talk."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1 Mullen's soft voice could make no headway until Polyorketes was }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 through, but then he said, speaking directly to Stuart, "We might be able to }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 
reach them from outside. This room has a C-chute I'm sure."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "What's a C-chute?" asked Leblanc.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "Well\emdash " began Mullen, and then stopped, at a loss.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Stuart said, mockingly, "It's a euphemism, my boy. Its full name is 'casu\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 alty chute.' It doesn't get talked about, but the main rooms on any ship }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 
would have them. They're just little airlocks down which you slide a corpse. Burial at space. Always lots of sentiment and bowed heads, with the captain }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 making a rolling speech of the type Polyorketes here wouldn't like."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Leblanc's face twisted. "Use }{\i\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 that }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 to leave the ship?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "Why not? Superstitious? \emdash Go on, Mullen."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 The little man had waited patiently. He said, "Once outside, one could }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 re-enter the ship by the steam-tubes. It can be done\emdash 
with luck. And then you would be an unexpected visitor in the control room."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Stuart stared at him curiously. "How do you figure this out? What do }{\i\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 you }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 know about steam-tubes?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 Mullen coughed. "You mean because I'm in the paper-box business? }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1 Well\emdash " He grew pink, waited a moment, then made a new start in a }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 
colorless, unemotional voice. "My company, which manufactures fancy pa\-}{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 per boxes and novelty containers, made a line of spaceship candy boxes for }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 
the juvenile trade some years ago. It was designed so that if a string were }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 pulled, small pressure containers were punctured and jets of compressed air shot out through the mock steam-tubes, sailing the box across the room and }{
\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 scattering candy as it went. The sales theory was that the youngsters would }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 find it exciting to play with the ship and fun to scramble for the candy.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 "Actually, it was a complete failure. The ship would break dishes and }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 sometimes hit another child in the eye. Worse still, the children would not }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 
only scramble for the candy but would fight over it. It was almost our worst failure. We lost thousands.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 "Still, while the boxes were being designed, the entire office was ex\-tremely interested. It was like a game, very bad for efficiency and office }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
morale. For a while, we all became steam-tube experts. I read quite a few }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 books on ship construction. On my own time, however, not the company's."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Stuart was intrigued. He said, "You know it's a video sort of idea, but it might work if we had a hero to spare. Have we?"}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 "What about you?" demanded Porter, indignantly. "You go around sneer\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 ing at us with your cheap wisecracks. I don't notice you volunteering for }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 anything."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "That's because I'm no hero, Porter. I admit it. My object is to stay alive, }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 and shinnying down steam-tubes is no way to go about staying alive. But the}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 rest of you are noble patriots. The colonel says so. What about you, Colo\-nel? You're the senior hero here."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Windham said, "If I were younger, blast it, and if you had your hands, I }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 would take pleasure, sir, in trouncing you soundly."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 "I've no doubt of it, but that's no answer."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1 "You know very well that at my time of life and with my leg\emdash " he }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 brought the flat of his hand down upon his stiff knee\emdash  "I am in no position }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 
to do anything of the sort, however much I should wish to."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "Ah, yes," said Stuart, "and I, myself, am crippled in the hands, as Pory-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 orketes tells me. That saves us. And what unfortunate deformities do the }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 rest of us have?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 "Listen," cried Porter, "I want to know what this is all about. How can }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 anyone go down the steam-tubes? What if the Kloros use them while one of us is inside?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 "Why, Porter, that's part of the sporting chance. It's where the excite\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 ment comes in."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 "But he'd be boiled in the shell like a lobster."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "A pretty image, but inaccurate. The steam wouldn't be on for more than }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 a very short time, maybe a second or two, and the suit insulation would hold }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 that long. Besides, the jet 
comes scooting out at several hundred miles a }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 minute, so that you would be blown clear of the ship before the steam could }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 even warm you. In fact, you'd be blown quite a few miles out into space, and }{
\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 after that you would be quite safe from the Kloros. Of course, you couldn't }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 get back to the ship."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 Porter was sweating freely. "You don't scare me for one minute, Stuart."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 "I don't? Then you're offering to go? Are you sure you've thought out }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 what being stranded in space means? You're all alone, you know; really all }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 
alone. The steam-jet will probably leave you turning or tumbling pretty }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 rapidly. You won't feel that. You'll seem to be motionless. But all the stars }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 
will be going around and around so that they're just streaks in the sky. They }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 won't ever stop. They wo
n'f even slow up. Then your heater will go off, your oxygen will give out, and you will die very slowly. You'll have lots of time to }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
think. Or, if you are in a hurry, you could open your suit. That wouldn't be pleasant, either. I've seen faces of men who had a torn suit happen to them }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 accidentally, and it's pretty awful. But it would be quicker. Then\emdash "}{

\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Porter turned and walked unsteadily away.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Stuart said, lightly, "Another failure. One act of heroism still ready to be }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 knocked down to the highest bidder with nothing offered yet."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 Polyorketes spoke up and his harsh voice roughed the words. "You keep on talking, Mr. Big Mouth. You just keep banging that empty barrel. Pretty }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 
soon, we'll kick your teeth in. There's one boy I think would be willing to do }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 it now, eh, Mr. Porter?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 Porter's look at Stuart confirmed the truth of Polyorketes' remarks, but he }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 said nothing.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 i i Stuart said, "Then what about you, Polyorketes? You're the barehand }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 man with guts. Want me to help you into a suit?" \bullet  "I'll ask you when I want help." }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
1 "What about you, Leblanc?"}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 The young man shrank away.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "Not even to get back to Margaret?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 But Leblanc could only shake his head.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-12\cf1 "Mullen?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "Well\emdash I'll try."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-12\cf1 "You'll what?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 "I said, yes, I'll try. After all, it's my idea."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Stuart looked stunned. "You're serious? How come?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 Mullen's prim mouth pursed. "Because no one else will."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "But that's no reason. Especially for you."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-12\cf1 Mullen shrugged.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 There was a thump of a cane behind Stuart. Windham brushed past.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 He said, "Do you really intend to go, Mullen?"}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 "Yes, Colonel."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "In that case, dash it, let me shake your hand. I like you. You're an\emdash an }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 Earthman, by heaven. Do this, and win or die, I'll bear witness for you."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Mullen withdrew his hand awkwardly from the deep and vibrating grasp }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 of the other.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 And Stuart just stood there. He was in a very unusual position. He was, in fact, in the particular position of all positions in which he most rarely found }{\expnd-3\expndtw-17\cf1 himself.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 He had nothing to say.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 The quality of tension had changed. The gloom and frustration had lifted }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 a bit, and the excitement of conspiracy had replaced it. Even Polyorketes }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 
was fingering the spacesuits and commenting briefly and hoarsely on which }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 he considered preferable.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 Mullen was having a certain amount of trouble. The suit hung rather }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 limply upon him even though the adjustable joints had been tightened }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 
nearly to minimum. He stood there now with only the helmet to be screwed on. He wiggled his neck.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 Stuart was holding the helmet with an effort. It was heavy, and his ar-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 tiplasmic hands did not grip it well. He said, "Better scratch your nose if it }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 
itches. It's your last chance for a while." He didn't add, "Maybe forever," }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 but he thought it.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Mullen said, tonelessly, "I think perhaps I had better have a spare oxygen }{\expnd-2\expndtw-12\cf1 cylinder."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "Good enough."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "With a reducing valve."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Stuart nodded. "I see what you're thinking of. If you do get blown clear}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 of the ship, you could try to blow yourself back by using the cylinder as an }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 action-reaction motor."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 They clamped on the headpiece and buckled the spare cylinder to Mul-}{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 len's waist. Polyorketes and Leblanc lifted him up to the yawning opening of }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 
the C-tube. It was ominously dark inside, the metal lining of the interior }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 having been painted a mournful black. Stuart thought he could detect a }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 musty odor about it, but that, he knew, was
 only imagination.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 He stopped the proceedings when Mullen was half within the tube. He tapped upon the little man's faceplate.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "Can you hear me?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 Within, there was a nod.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "Air coming through all right? No last-minute troubles?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Mullen lifted his armored arm in a gesture of reassurance.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 "Then remember, don't use the suit-radio out there. The Kloros might }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 pick up the signals."}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 Reluctantly, he stepped away. Polyorketes' brawny hands lowered Mullen }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1 until they could hear the thumping sound made by the steel-shod feet }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 
against the outer valve. The inner valve then swung shut with a dreadful }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 finality, its beveled silicone gasket making a slight soughing noise as it }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 crushed hard. They clamped it into place.}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Stuart stood at the toggle-switch that controlled the outer valve. He threw }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 it and the gauge that marked the air pressure within the tube fell to zero. A }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 
little pinpoint of red light warned that the outer valve was open. Then the }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 light disappeared, the valve closed, and the gauge climbed slowly to fifteen }{\expnd-2\expndtw-12\cf1 pounds again.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 They opened the inner valve again and found the tube empty.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Polyorketes spoke first. He said, "The little son-of-a-gun. He went!" He }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 looked wonderingly at the others. "A little fellow with guts like that."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 Stuart said, "Look, we'd better get ready in here. There's just a chance that the Kloros may have detected the valves opening and closing. If so, }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 they'll be here to investigate and we'll have to cover up."
}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 "How?" asked Windham.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 "They won't see Mullen anywhere around. We'll say he's in the head. }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 The Kloros know that it's one of the peculiar characteristics of Earthmen }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
that they resent intrusion on their privacy in lavatories, and they'll make no }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 effort to check. If we can hold them off\emdash "}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "What if they wait, or if they check the spacesuits?" asked Porter.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 Stuart shrugged. "Let's hope they don't. And listen, Polyorketes, don't }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 make any fuss when they come in."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 Polyorketes grunted, "With that little guy out there? What do you think }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 I am?" He stared at Stuart without animosity, then scratched his curly hair }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 
vigorously. "You know, I laughed at him. I thought he was an old woman. It makes me ashamed."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 Stuart cleared his throat. He said, "Look, I've been saying some things}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 that maybe weren't too funny after all, now that I come to think of it. I'd like to say I'm sorry if I have."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 He turned away morosely and walked toward his cot. He heard the steps behind him, felt the touch on his sleeve. He turned; it was Leblanc.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 The youngster said softly, "I keep thinking that Mr. Mullen is an old }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex90 man."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 "Well, he's not a kid. He's about forty-five or fifty, I think."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 Leblanc said, "Do you think, Mr. Stuart, that / should have gone, in\-stead? I'm the youngest here. I don't like the thought of having let an old man go in my place. It makes me feel like the devil."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 "I know. If he dies, it will be too bad."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 "But he volunteered. We didn't make him, did we?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 "Don't try to dodge responsibility, Leblanc. It won't make you feel bet\-ter. There isn't one of us without a stronger motive to run the risk than he had." And Stuart sat there silently, thinking.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 Mullen felt the obstruction beneath his feet yield and the walls about him }{\cf1\charscalex90 slip away quickly, too quickly. He knew it was the puff of air escaping, }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex90 
carrying him with it, and he dug arms and legs frantically against the wall to brake himself. Corpses were supposed to be flung well clear of the ship, but }{\cf1\charscalex90 he was no corpse\emdash for the moment.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 His feet swung free and threshed. He heard the }{\i\cf1\charscalex90 clunk }{\cf1\charscalex90 of one magnetic boot against the hull just as the rest of his body puffed out like a tight cork }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 under 
air pressure. He teetered dangerously at the lip of the hole in the ship }{\cf1\charscalex90 \emdash he had changed orientation suddenly and was looking down on it\emdash 
then took a step backward as its lid came down of itself and fitted smoothly against the hull.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 A feeling of unreality overwhelmed him. Surely, it wasn't he standing on }{\cf1\charscalex90 
the outer surface of a ship. Not Randolph F. Mullen. So few human beings could ever say they had, even those who traveled in space constantly.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex90 He was only gradually aware that he was in pain. Popping out of that hole }{\cf1\charscalex90 with one foot clamped to the hull had nearly bent him in two. He tried }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex90 
moving, cautiously, and found his motions to be erratic and almost impossi\-}{\cf1\charscalex90 ble to control. He }{\i\cf1\charscalex90 thought }{\cf1\charscalex90 nothing was broken, though the muscles of his }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 
left side were badly wrenched.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 And then he came to himself and noticed that the wrist-lights of his suit were on. It was by their light that he had stared into the blackness of the C-chute. He stirred with the nervous thought that from within, the Kloros }{
\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex90 might see the twin spots of moving light just outside the hull. He flicked the }{\cf1\charscalex90 switch upon the suit's midsection.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 Mullen had never imagined that, standing on a ship, he would fail to see }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 its hull. But it was dark, as dark below as above. There were the stars, hard }{\cf1\charscalex90 and bright little n
on-dimensional dots. Nothing more. Nothing more any\-where. Under his feet, not even the stars\emdash }{\i\cf1\charscalex90 not even his feet.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 He bent back to look at the stars. His head swam. They were moving }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 slowly. Or, rather, they were standing still and the ship was rotating, but he }{\cf1\charscalex91 could not tell his eyes that. }{
\i\cf1\charscalex91 They }{\cf1\charscalex91 moved. His eyes followed\emdash down and behind the ship. New stars up and above from the other side. A black horizon. The ship existed only as a region where there were no stars.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex91 No stars? Why, there was one almost at his feet. He nearly reached for it; }{\cf1\charscalex91 then he realized that it was only a glittering reflection in the mirroring }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1\charscalex91 metal.}{

\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 They were moving thousands of miles an hour. The stars were. The ship }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex91 was. He was. But it meant nothing. To his senses, there was only silence and }{
\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 darkness and that slow wheeling of the stars. His eyes followed the wheel\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1\charscalex91 ing\emdash }{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 And his head in its helmet hit the ship's hull with a soft bell-like ring.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex91 He felt about in panic with his thick, insensitive, spun-silicate gloves. His feet were still firmly magnetized to the hull, that was true, but the rest of his }{\cf1\charscalex91 
body bent backward at the knees in a right angle. There was no gravity }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 outside the ship. If he bent back, there was nothing to pull the upper part of his body down and tell his joints they were b
ending. His body stayed as he }{\cf1\charscalex91 put it.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 He pressed wildly against the hull and his torso shot upward and refused }{\cf1\charscalex91 to stop when upright. He fell forward.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex91 He tried more slowly, balancing with both hands against the hull, until he }{\cf1\charscalex91 squatted evenly. Then upward. Very slowly. Straight up. Arms out to bal\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1\charscalex91 ance.}{

\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 He was straight now, aware of his nausea and lightheadedness.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 He looked about. My God, where were the steam-tubes? He couldn't see }{\cf1\charscalex91 them. They were black on black, nothing on nothing.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 Quickly, he turned on the wrist-lights. In space, there were no beams, }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex91 only elliptical, sharply defined spots of blue steel, winking light back at him. }{\cf1\charscalex91 
Where they struck a rivet, a shadow was cast, knife-sharp and as black as }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 space, the lighted region illuminated abruptly and without diffusion.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 He moved his arms, his body swaying gently in the opposite direction; action and reaction. The vision of a steam-tube with its smooth cylindrical }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex91 sides sprang at him.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex91 He tried to move toward it. His foot held firmly to the hull. He pulled }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex91 and it slogged upward, straining against quicksand that eased quickly. Three }{\cf1\charscalex91 
inches up and it had almost sucked free; six inches up and he thought it }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1\charscalex91 would fly away.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 He advanced it and let it down, felt it enter the quicksand. When the sole }{\cf1\charscalex91 was within two inc
hes of the hull, it snapped down; out of control, hitting the hull ringingly. His spacesuit carried the vibrations, amplifying them in }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex91 his ears.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex91 He stopped in absolute terror. The dehydrators that dried the atmosphere}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 within his suit could not handle the sudden gush of perspiration that drenched his forehead and armpits.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 He waited, then tried lifting his foot again\emdash a bare inch, holding it there by main force and moving it horizontally. Horizontal motion involved no }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 effort at all; it was motion perpendicular
 to the lines of magnetic force. But }{\cf1\charscalex90 he had to keep the foot from snapping down as he did so, and then lower it }{\expnd-2\expndtw-13\cf1\charscalex90 slowly.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 He puffed with the effort. Each step was agony. The tendons of his knees }{\cf1\charscalex90 were cracking, and there were knives in his side.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 Mullen stopped to let the perspiration dry. It wouldn't do to steam up the }{\cf1\charscalex90 inside of his faceplate. He flashed his wrist-lights, and the steam-cylinder }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 
was right ahead.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 The ship had four of them, at ninety degree intervals, thrusting out at an angle from the midgirdle.
 They were the "fine adjustment" of the ship's course. The coarse adjustment was the powerful thrusters back and front which fixed final velocity by their accelerative and the decelerative force, and the hyperatomics that took care of the space-swallowing
 Jumps.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 
But occasionally the direction of flight had to be adjusted slightly and then the steam-cylinders took over. Singly, they could drive the ship up, down, right, left. By twos, in appropriate ratios of thrust, the ship could be turned in any desired d
irection.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 The device had been unimproved in centuries, being too simple to im\-
prove. The atomic pile heated the water content of a closed container into steam, driving it, in less than a second, up to temperatures where it would have broken down into a mix
ture of hydrogen and oxygen, and then into a mixture of electrons and ions. Perhaps the breakdown actually took place. No one ever bothered testing; it worked, so there was no need to.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 At the critical point, a needle valve gave way and the steam thrust madly out in a short but incredible blast. And the ship, inevitably and majestically, }{\cf1\charscalex90 
moved in the opposite direction, veering about its own center of gravity. }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex90 When the degrees of turn were sufficient, an equal and opposite blast would }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 take place and the turn
ing would be canceled. The ship would be moving at }{\cf1\charscalex90 its original velocity, but in a new direction.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex90 Mullen had dragged himself out to the lip of the steam-cylinder. He had a picture of himself\emdash }{\i\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex90 3 }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex90 
small speck teetering at the extreme end of a structure }{\cf1\charscalex90 thrusting out of an ovoid that was tearing through space at ten thousand }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 miles an hour.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 But there was no air-stream to whip him off the hull, and his magnetic soles held him more firmly than he liked.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 With lights on, he bent down to peer into the tube and the ship dropped down precipitously as his orientation changed. He reached out to steady }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex90 
himself, but he was not falling. There was no up or down in space except for }{\cf1\charscalex90 what his confused mind chose to consider up or down.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 The cylinder was just large enough to hold a man, so that it might be}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex89 entered for repair purposes. His light caught the rungs almost directly oppo\-}{\cf1\charscalex89 
site his position at the lip. He puffed a sigh of relief with what breath he could muster. Some ships didn't have ladders.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex89 He made his way to it, the ship appearing to slip and twist beneath him as }{\cf1\charscalex89 he moved. He lifted an arm over the lip of the tube, feeling for the rung, loosened each foot, and drew himself within.}{

\par }{\cf1\charscalex89 The knot in his stomach that had been there from the first was a convulsed agony now. If they should choose to manipulate the ship, if the steam should whistle out now\emdash }{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex89 He would never hear it; never know it. One instant he would be holding a }{\cf1\charscalex89 rung, feeling slowly for the next with a groping arm. The next moment he would be alone in space, the shi
p a dark, dark nothingness lost forever among the stars. There would be, perhaps, a brief glory of swirling ice }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex89 crystals drifting with him, shining in his wrist-lights and slowly approaching }{\cf1\charscalex89 
and rotating about him, attracted by his mass like infinitesimal planets to an }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex89 absurdly tiny Sun.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex89 He was trickling sweat again, and now he was also conscious of thirst. He }{\cf1\charscalex89 put it out of his mind. There would be no drinking until he was out of his }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex89 suit\emdash 
if ever.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex89 Up a rung; up another; and another. How many were there? His hand slipped and he stared in disbelief at the glitter that showed under his light.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1\charscalex89 Ice?}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex89 Why not? The steam, incredibly hot as it was, would strike metal that was at nearly absolute zero. In the few split-seconds of thrust, there would not be }{\cf1\charscalex89 time for the
 metal to warm above the freezing point of water. A sheet of ice would condense that would sublime slowly into the vacuum. It was the speed of all that happened that prevented the fusion of the tubes and of the }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex89 
original water-container itself.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex89 His groping hand reached the end. Again the wrist-lights. He stared with crawling horror at the steam nozzle, half an inch in diameter. It looked dead, harmless. But it always would, right up to the micro-second before\emdash }{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex89 Around it was the outer steam lock. It pivoted on a central hub that was springed on the portion toward space, screwed on the part toward the ship. The springs allowed it to give under the first wild thrust of steam pressure }{
\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex89 before the ship's mighty inertia could be overcome. The steam was bled into }{\cf1\charscalex89 the
 inner chamber, breaking the force of the thrust, leaving the total energy unchanged, but spreading it over time so that the hull itself was in that much less danger of being staved in.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex89 Mullen braced himself firmly against a rung and pressed against the outer }{\cf1\charscalex89 
lock so that it gave a little. It was stiff, but it didn't have to give much, just enough to catch on the screw. He felt it catch.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex89 He strained against it and turned it, feeling his body twist in the opposite direction. It held tight, the screw taking up the strain as he carefully ad-}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex92 justed the small control switch that allowed the springs to fall free. How well }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 he remembered the books he had read!}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex92 He was in the interlock space now, which was large enough to hold a man }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex92 comfortably, again for convenience in repairs. He could no longer be blown }{
\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 away from the ship. If the steam blast were turned on now, it would merely }{\cf1\charscalex92 drive him against the inner lock\emdash hard enough to crush him to a pulp. A }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 
quick death he would never feel, at least.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 Slowly, he unhooked his spare oxygen cylinder. There was only an inner lock between himself and the control room now. This lock opened outward }{\cf1\charscalex92 
into space so that the steam blast could only close it tighter, rather than blow it open. And it fitted tightly and smoothly. There was absolutely no way to open it from without.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 He lifted himself above the lock, forcing his bent back against the inner }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 surface of the interlock area. It made breathing difficult. The spare oxygen }{
\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex92 cylinder dangled at a queer angle. He held its metal-mesh hose and straight\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 ened it, forcing it against the inner lock so that vibration thudded. Again\emdash  }{
\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1\charscalex92 again\emdash }{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 It would }{\i\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 have }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 to attract the attention of the Kloros. They would }{\i\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 have }{
\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 to }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex92 investigate.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 He would have no way of telling when they were about to do so. Ordi\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 narily, they would first let air into the interlock to force the outer lock shut.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex92 \bullet  But now the outer lock was on the central screw, well away from its rim. Air }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 would suck about it ineffectually, dragging out into space.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 Mullen kept on thumping. Would the Kloros look at the air-gauge, note }{\cf1\charscalex92 that it scarcely lifted from zero, or would they take its proper working for }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex92 granted?}{

\par }{\cf1\charscalex92 Porter said, "He's been gone an hour and a half."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex92 "I know," said Stuart.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex92 They were all restless, jumpy, but the tension among themselves had }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex92 disappeared. It was as though all the threads of emotion extended to the hull }{\cf1\charscalex92 of the ship.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex92 Porter was bothered. His philosophy of life had always been simple\emdash take }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex92 care of yourself because no one will take care of you for you. It upset him to }{
\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 see it shaken.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 He said, "Do you suppose they've caught him?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex92 "If they had, we'd hear about it," replied Stuart, briefly.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex92 Porter felt, with a miserable twinge, that there was little interest on the part of the others in speaking to him. He could understand it; he had not }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex92 
exactly earned their respect. For the moment, a torrent of self-excuse poured}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex92 \bullet  through his mind. The others had been frightened, too. A man had a right to be afraid. No one likes to die. At least, he hadn't broken like Aristides }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 Polyorketes. He hadn't wep
t like Leblanc. He\emdash  }{\cf1\charscalex92 But there was Mullen, out there on the hull.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex87 "Listen," he cried, "why did he do it?" They turned to look at him, not understanding, but Porter didn't care. It bothered him to the point where it had to come out. "I want to know why Mullen is risking his life."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex87 "The man," said Windham, "is a patriot\emdash "}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex87 "No, none of that!" Porter was almost hysterical. "That little fellow has no emotions at all. He just has reasons and I want to know what those }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex87 reasons are, because\emdash "}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex87 He didn't finish the sentence. Could he say that if those reasons applied }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex87 to a little middle-aged bookkeeper, they might apply even more forcibly to }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1\charscalex87 himself?}{

\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex87 Polyorketes said, "He's one brave damn little fellow."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex87 Porter got to his feet. "Listen,", he said, "he may be stuck out there. }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex87 Whatever he's doing, he may not be able to finish it alone. I\emdash I volunteer to }{\cf1\charscalex87 go out after him."}{

\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex87 He was shaking as he said it and he waited in fear for the sarcastic lash of Stuart's tongue. Stuart was staring at him, probably with surprise, but Porter }{\cf1\charscalex87 dared not meet his eyes to make certain.}{

\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex87 Stuart said, mildly, "Let's give him another half-hour."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex87 Porter looked up, startled. There was no sneer on Stuart's face. It was }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex87 even friendly. They }{\i\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex87 all }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex87 looked friendly.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex87 He said, "And then\emdash "}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex87 "And then all those who do volunteer will draw straws or something }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex87 equally democratic. Who volunteers, besides Porter?"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex87 They all raised their hands; Stuart did, too.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex87 But Porter was happy. He had volunteered first. He was anxious for the }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex87 half-hour to pass.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex87 It caught Mullen by surprise. The outer lock flew open and the long, thin, }{\cf1\charscalex87 snakelike, almost headless neck of a Kloro sucked out, unable to fight the }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex87 
blast of escaping air.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex87 Mullen's cylinder flew away, almost tore free. After one wild moment of }{\cf1\charscalex87 frozen panic, he fought for it, dragging it above the airstream, waiting as }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex87 
long as he dared to let the first fury die down as the air of the control room }{\cf1\charscalex87 thinned out, then bringing it down with force.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex87 It caught the sinewy neck squarely, crushing it. Mullen, curled above the }{\cf1\charscalex87 lock, almost e
ntirely protected from the stream, raised the cylinder again and plunging it down again striking the head, mashing the staring eyes to }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex87 liquid ruin. In the near-vacuum, green blood was pumping out of what was }{
\cf1\charscalex87 left of the neck.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex87 Mullen dared not vomit, but he wanted to.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex87 With eyes averted, he backed away, caught the outer lock with one hand }{\cf1\charscalex87 
and imparted a whirl. For several seconds, it maintained that whirl. At the end of the screw, the springs engaged automatically and pulled it shut.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex86 What was left of the atmosphere tightened it and the laboring pumps could now begin to fill the control room once again.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex86 Mullen crawled over the mangled Kloro and into the room. It was empty.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex86 He had barely time to notice that when he found himself on his knees. }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex86 He rose with difficulty. The transition from non-gravity to gravity had taken }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex86 
him entirely by surprise. It was Klorian gravity, too, which meant that with }{\cf1\charscalex86 this suit, he carried a fifty percent overload for his small frame. At least, }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex86 though, his heavy metal clogs no longer cl
ung so exasperatingly to the metal }{\cf1\charscalex86 underneath. Within the ship, floors and wall were of cork-covered alumi\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1\charscalex86 num alloy.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex86 He circled slowly. The neckless Kloro had collapsed and lay with only an }{\cf1\charscalex86 occasional twitch to show it had once been a living organism. He 
stepped over it, distastefully, and drew the steam-tube lock shut.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex86 The room had a depressing bilious cast and the lights shone yellow-green. }{\cf1\charscalex86 It was the Kloro atmosphere, of course.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex86 Mullen felt a twinge of surprise and reluctant admiration. The Kloros }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex86 obviously had some way of treating materials so that they were impervious to }{\cf1\charscalex86 
the oxidizing effect of chlorine. Even the map of Earth on the wall, printed on glossy plastic-backed paper, seemed fresh and untouched. He ap\-proached, drawn by the familiar outlines of the continents\emdash }{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex86 There was a flash of motion caught in the corner of his eyes. As quickly as }{\cf1\charscalex86 he could in his heavy suit, he turned, then screamed. The Kloro he had thought dead was rising to its feet.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex86 Its neck hung limp, an oozing mass of tissue mash, but its arms reached }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex86 out blindly, and the tentacles about its chest vibrated rapidly like innumera\-ble snakes' tongues.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex86 It was blind, of course. The destruction of its neck-stalk had deprived it of }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex86 all sensory equipment, and partial asphyxiation had disorganized it. But the }{\cf1\charscalex86 
brain remained whole and safe in the abdomen. It still lived.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex86 Mullen backed away. He circled, trying clumsily and unsuccessfully to tiptoe, though he knew that what was left of the Kloro was also deaf. It }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex86 blundered on its way, struck a wal
l, felt to the base and began sidling along }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1\charscalex86 it.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex86 Mullen cast about desperately for a weapon, found nothing. There was the Kloro's holster, but he dared not reach for it. Why hadn't he snatched it }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex86 at the very first? Fool!}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex86 The door to the control room opened. It made almost no noise. Mullen }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex86 turned, quivering.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex86 The other Kloro entered, unharmed, entire. It stood in the doorway for a }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex86 moment, chest-tendrils stiff and unmoving; its neck-stalk stretched forward; }{\cf1\charscalex86 
its horrible eyes flickering first at him and then at its nearly dead comrade.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex86 And then its hand moved quickly to its side.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex86 Mullen, without awareness, moved as quickly in pure reflex. He stretched }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex86 out the hose of the spare oxygen-cylinder, which, since entering the control}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 room, he had replaced in its suit-clamp, and cracked the valve. He didn't }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 bother reducing the pressure. He let it gush out unchecked so that he nearly staggered under the backward push.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex90 He could }{\i\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex90 see }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex90 the oxygen stream. It was a pale puff, billowing out amid the }{\cf1\charscalex90 chlorine-green. It caught the K
loro with one hand on the weapon's holster.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 The Kloro threw its hands up. The little beak on its head-nodule opened }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex90 alarmingly but noiselessly. It staggered and fell, writhed for a moment, then }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 
lay still. Mullen approached and played the oxygen-stream upon its body as }{\cf1\charscalex90 though he were extinguishing a fire. And then he raised his heavy foot and brought it down upon the center of the neck-stalk and crushed it on the }{
\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1\charscalex90 floor.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 He turned to the first. It was sprawled, rigid.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 The whole room was pale with oxygen, enough to kill whole legions of }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex90 Kloros, and his cylinder was empty.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 Mullen stepped over the dead Kloro, out of the control room and along the main corridor toward the prisoners' room.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 Reaction had set in. He was whimpering in blind, incoherent fright.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 Stuart was tired. False hands and all, he was at the controls of a ship once }{\cf1\charscalex90 again. Two light cruisers of Earth were on the way. For better than twenty-}{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 
four hours he had handled the controls virtually alone. He had discarded the }{\cf1\charscalex90 chlorinating equipment, rerigged the old atmospherics, located the ship's position in space, tried to plot a course, and sent out carefully guarded }{
\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex90 signals\emdash which had worked.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex90 So when the door of the control room opened, he was a little annoyed. He }{\cf1\charscalex90 was too tired to play conversational handball. Then he turned, and it was }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 
Mullen stepping inside.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 Stuart said, "For God's sake, get back into bed, Mullen!"}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 Mullen said, "I'm tired of sleeping, even though I never thought I would be a while ago."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 "How do you feel?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 "I'm stiff all over. Especially my side." He grimaced and stared involun\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1\charscalex90 tarily around.}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 "Don't look for the Kloros," Stuart said. "We dumped the poor devils." }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex90 He shook his head. "I was sorry for them. To themselves, }{\i\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex90 they're }{
\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex90 the human }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 beings, you know, and }{\i\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 we're }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 the aliens. Not that I'd rather they'd killed you, }{
\cf1\charscalex90 you understand."}{
\par }{\cf1\charscalex90 "I understand."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex90 Stuart turned a sidelong glance upon the little man who sat looking at the }{\cf1\charscalex90 map of Earth and went on, "I owe you a particular and personal apology, Mullen. I didn't think much of you."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex90 "It was your privilege," said Mullen in his dry voice, There was no feeling }{\cf1\charscalex90 in it.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 !   "No, it wasn't. It is no one's privilege to despise another. It is only a hard-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 won right after long experience." }{\i\expnd3\expndtw17\cf1 ,.'}{\i\cf1  }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 
"Have you been thinking about this?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "Yes, all day. Maybe I can't explain. It's these hands." He held them up before him, spread out. "It was hard knowing that other people had hands }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1 
of their own. I had to hate them for it. I always had to do my best to }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 investigate and belittle their motives, point up their deficiencies, expose }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
their stupidities. I had to do anything that would prove to myself that they }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 weren't worth envying."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 Mullen moved restlessly. "This explanation is not necessary."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 "It is. It is!" Stuart felt his thoughts intently, strained to put them into }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 words. "For years I've abandoned hope of finding any decency in human beings. Then you climbed into the C-chute."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1 "You had better understand," said Mullen, "that I was motivated by }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 practical and selfish considerations. I will not have you present me to myself }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 as a hero."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1 "I wasn't intending to. I know that you would do nothing without a }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 reason. It was what your action did to the rest of us. It turned a collection of }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
phonies and fools into decent people. And not by magic either. They were }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 decent all along. It was just that they needed something to live up to and }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 you supplied it. And\emdash 
I'm one of them. I'll have to live up to you, too. For }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 the rest of my life, probably."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 Mullen turned away uncomfortably. His hand straightened his sleeves, which were not in the least twisted. His finger rested on the map.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 He said, "I was born in Richmond, Virginia, you know. Here it is. I'll be going there first. Where were you born?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "Toronto," said Stuart.}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 "That's right here. Not very far apart on the map, is it?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 Stuart said, "Would you tell me something?"}{
\par }{\expnd1\expndtw6\cf1 "If}{\cf1  }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 I can."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "Just why }{\i\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 did }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 you go out there?"}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 Mullen's precise mouth pursed. He said, dryly, "Wouldn't my rather pro\-}{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 saic reason ruin the inspirational effect?"}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 "Call it intellectual curiosity. Each of the rest of us had such obvious }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 motives. Porter was scared to death of being interned; Leblanc wanted to }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 
get back to his sweetheart; Polyorketes wanted to kill Kloros; and Windham }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 was a patriot according to his lights. As for me, I thought of myself as a }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1 noble idealist, I'm afraid. Yet in no
ne of us was the motivation strong }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 enough to get us into a spacesuit and out the C-chute. Then what made }{\i\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 you }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 do it, }{\i\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 you, }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
of all people?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 "Why the phrase, 'of all people'?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "Don't be offended, but you seem devoid of all emotion."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "Do I?" Mullen's voice did not change. It remained precise and soft, yet }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 somehow a tightness had entered it. "That's only training, Mr. Stuart, and}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 self-discipline; not nature. A small man can have no respectable emotions. Is }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 there anything more ridiculous than a man like myself in a state of rage? I'm }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 
five feet and one-half inch tall, and one hundred and two pounds in weight, }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 if you care for exact figures. I insist on the half inch and the two pounds.}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-3\cf1 "Can I be dignified? Proud? Draw myself to my full height without }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 inducing laughter? Where can I meet a woman who will not dismiss me }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 
instantly with a giggle? Naturally, I've had to learn to dispense with external }{\expnd-2\expndtw-11\cf1 display of emotion.}{
\par }{\i\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "You }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 talk about deformities. No one would notice your hands or know }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 they were different, if you weren't 
so eager to tell people all about it the instant you meet them. Do you think that the eight inches of height I do }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 not have can be hidden? That it is not the first and, in most cases, the only }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 
thing about me that a person will notice?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 Stuart was ashamed. He had invaded a privacy he ought not have. He }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 said, "I'm sorry."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 "Why?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\cf1 "I should not have forced you to speak of this. I should have seen for }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 myself that you\emdash that you\emdash "}{
\par }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 "That I what? Tried to prove myself? Tried to show that while I might be }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 small in body, I held within it a giant's heart?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "1 would not have put it mockingly."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "Why not? It's a foolish idea, and nothing like it is the reason I did what }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 I did. What would I have accomplished if that's what was in my mind? Will }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
they take me to Earth now and put me up before the television cameras\emdash  }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 pitching them low, of course, to catch my face, or standing me on a chair\emdash  }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 and pin medals on me?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 "They are quite likely to do exactly that."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "And what good would it do me? They would say, 'Gee, and he's such a }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 little guy.' And afterward, what? Shall I tell each man I meet, 'You know, }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 
I'm the fellow they decorated for incredible valor last month?' How many }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 medals, Mr. Stuart, do you suppose it would take to put eight inches and }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 sixty pounds on me?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 Stuart said, "Put that way, I see your point."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 Mullen was speaking a trifle more quickly now; a controlled heat had }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 entered his words, warming them to just a tepid room temperature. "There }{\i\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 were }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 
days when I thought I would show them, the mysterious 'them' that }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 includes all the world. I was going to leave Earth and carve out worlds for }{\expnd-1\expndtw-7\cf1 
myself. I would be a new and even smaller Napoleon. So I left Earth and }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 went to Arcturus. And what could I do on Arcturus that I could not have }{\expnd0\expndtw-4\cf1 done on Earth? Nothing. I balance books. So I am pas
t the vanity, Mr. }{\expnd-1\expndtw-6\cf1 Stuart, of trying to stand on tiptoe."}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 "Then why }{\i\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 did }{\expnd-1\expndtw-8\cf1 you do it?"}{
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-9\cf1 "I left Earth when I was twenty-eight and came to the Arcturian System. }{\expnd-2\expndtw-10\cf1 I've been there ever since. This trip was to be my first vacation, my first visit}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 back to Earth in all that time. I was going to stay on Earth for six months. }{\cf1\charscalex92 The Kloros instead captured us and would have kept us interned indefi\-}{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 
nitely. But I couldn't\emdash I }{\i\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 couldn 't }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 let them stop me from traveling to Earth. }{\cf1\charscalex92 No matter what the risk, I had to prevent their int
erference. It wasn't love }{\expnd0\expndtw-2\cf1\charscalex92 of woman, or fear, or hate, or idealism of any sort. It was stronger than any }{\cf1\charscalex92 of those."}{
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 He stopped, and stretched out a hand as though to caress the map on the }{\expnd-2\expndtw-14\cf1\charscalex92 wall.}{
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\expnd0\expndtw-1\cf1\charscalex92 "Mr. Stuart," Mullen asked quietly, "haven't you ever been homesick?"}{
\par }}